A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity is a soma~cognitive practice that helps reach non-equilibrium stability through perceptual diversification. Unlike financial diversification the intention is not to reduce exposure to a particular asset or risk, but, rather, to increase exposure to every asset and risk that is worthwhile, to not be the one, but to be many, to find shapes that are not somebody else’s but that are one’s own, to not belong to one center, but to create trajectories that form patterns in space~time phase space.
This journal documents the latest proceedings of Polysingularity into carefully organized categories (Books), which can then be used to induce altered states of consciousness in order to bring one closer to the limits of oneself.
Polysingularity practice functions in short-term iterations, delivering frequent updates to the already existing releases. This process happens in line with the principles of agile development, occasionally diverting towards uncharted territories, experimenting with itself and its own relation to whatever it is that can be considered as finished.
Polysingularity is produced, maintained and developed by Dmitry Paranyushkin / Nodus Labs.
dmitry ((at)) noduslabs ((.)) com
Let’s imagine this world as a world made out of many different islands. Every island is unique and provides a different point of view onto the rest of the world. Still, it is one world, but it is one of the many possible ones.
Polysingularity is a practice of bridging those islands, maintaining diversity and yet unifying the different perspectives and qualities together into a|n in|coherent whole. Synchronizing the frequencies across different bands and spectrums. Resolving multiple originating circumstances for the phenomena that occur. Multiple universes merging into one. Networked co-isolated singularities seen as one and many. Zooming in and zooming out.
To decipher further: soma = body, cognitive = mind, soma~cognitive = bodymind, non-equilibrium = not looking for any balance, giving priority to what’s needed, getting rid of unneeded, stability = replication of same, non-equilibrium stability = changing perspectives through shifting between different sets of priorities when it’s necessary, but not necessarily at a whim or at the first convenience.
Some fellow travelers ask about the difference between Polysingularity and Singularity.
To put it simply:
Singularity is moving towards one dot, the center, the (new) Origin.
Polysingularity is moving towards the many dots, multiple centers, and no specific origin.
Singularity claims that things are getting more and more interconnected and generally doesn’t oppose this tendency, because it’s considered to be progress and because the new form of consciousness will emerge as a result.
Polysingularity claims that diversity and variability are important elements of complex systems: any intensification in connectivity should encounter limitations in order to grow in many different directions and not only in one, so that the newly emerging form of consciousness is robust, adaptable, and self-aware.
Polysingularity is an emergent concept in science that describes the inherent capacity of complex systems to be different depending on how interaction occurs between the different parts.
For example, if we take a group of twenty people where everyone knows each other, it would be much more prone to adopt a certain trend of behavior than a group of the same size but comprised of three distinctly separated communities – the so-called “small world” network (Zhou et al 2007; Kuperman & Abramson 2001; Bragard et al 2007). Therefore, we’re dealing with a similar multiplicity but the way the parts interact defines the behavior and the capacities of this multiplicity on the global scale.
The same thing happens in our interactions with the environment. When we encounter a certain situation we perceive its affordances: the network of relations between the environmental features and our abilities (Gibson 1979; Turvey 1992; Chemero 2003, 2008). Change a point of view, forget something, think of something else – and the new features will become visible. Escape the predictable course of events, relax your neck, breathe slower – and the new possibilities will emerge. Thus, the situation has the capacity to be in a lot of different ways through interactions between the environmental features and personal abilities. If we constantly rewire those elements to remind ourselves that things have inherent capacity to be otherwise, then we experience polysingularity of perception and action in everyday life.
The term “Polysingularity” has originally been used mainly by Russian mathematicians to describe a special class of integral equations with multiple simultaneous solutions (Simonenko, 1965; Boikov, 2000; Gabdulkhaev, 2005). Integral equations, to put it simply, help you find the rule that produces a certain rate of change. They are the reverse of differential equations that describe processes in time. So the solutions of polysingular integral equations are all the different functions (or rules) that lead to the behavior that is being studied. Thus, we look at a process that generates change and instead of finding the reason(s) behind it, we find the many different equations that are in place and see all their possibilities for interaction that can produce such change.
This particular journal is an archive of dispatches from another dimension, a parallel universe, a different time-scale-position (sometimes from the future, sometimes from the past). In their intent they deliver a practice of coming in sync with the universal life flow on both cognitive and somatic levels.
Some of the emanations are purposefully obfuscated, language may be corrupted, sentences don’t fully end (the reason for that is the originating species didn’t know the language so well, failures in machine translations and such, freedom from limitations of the grammatical forms, leaving some threads open for interpretations and such). They consist of field studies, and observations – often carrying dream-like obscurity of an alienated sight – something achieved by the double-position of an agent both on the outside and inside the actual curse of events.
“Happy, and without a name, the creature knocks at the gates of the land of the magi, who speaks in gestures alone.”
Agamben, G. (2005). Magic and Happiness
Boikov, I. V. (2001). Numerical Methods of Computation of Singular and Hypersingular Integrals. 3, 127-179.
Bragard, J., Vidal, G., Mancini, H., Mendoza, C., & Boccaletti, S. (2007). Chaos suppression through asymmetric coupling. Chaos (Woodbury, N.Y.)
Chemero, A. (2003). An Outline of a Theory of Affordances. Ecological Psychology, 15(2), 181-195.
Chemero, A. (2008). Self-Organization, Writ Large. Ecological Psychology, 20(3), 257-269.
Gabdulkhaev, B. G. (2005). Polysingular integral equations with positive operators, 49(11), 2005.
Gibson, J. J. (1979). The ecological approach to visual perception. (C. University, Ed.)of Experimental Psychology Human Perception and (Vol. 39, p. 332). Houghton Mifflin.
Kuperman, M., & Abramson, G. (2001). Small World Effect in an Epidemiological Model. Physical Review Letters, 86(13), 2909-2912.
Paranyushkin, D (2011). Visualization of Text’s Polysingularity Using Network Analysis. Prototype Letters, 2(3), 256-278
Simonenko, I. (1965). A new general method for researching linear operational integral equation. 29, 567-586.
Strolman, P (1990). Memoirs. Change. Progression. The Annual Journal of Russian Academy of Science, 24(2), 126-145.
Turvey, M. (1992). Affordances and prospective control: An outline of the ontology. Ecological Psychology, 4(3).
Zhou, J., Liu, Z., & Li, B. (2007). Influence of network structure on rumor propagation. Physics Letters A, 368(6), 458-463
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
YOMA VILLAS, BALI, INDONESIA
TO ISA/SECSTATE SA IMMEDIATE 6368
RUEKJCS/JOINT STAFF WASHDC IMMEDIATE RELEASE
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Any light is a manifestation of polysingularity: an electrical circuit is generated repetitively to produce the difference of potentials that has to be compensated with an increased intensity.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Every subsequent moment has a trace of the previous one. Repetitive iterations maintain the essence through slight deviations that progressively shift the sound into the new plane. A plateau is maintained through polysingularity, but the insistence of difference to manifest itself at each step is shifting the plateau position in space.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The drill is moving and every trace that it leaves behind is different. Each iteration is different, but the intention progresses steadily both because and in spite of those differences. This capacity to move further through repetitions with differences is the essence of polysingularity and its main mechanism of replicating itself.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity of movement manifests itself through slight deviations that nevertheless gravitate towards a temporary attractor state. This state would not exist if it was not for the deviations that define the essence of their polysingularity by refusing to leave from each other too far. Yet, every movement is a promise of a new state of possibilities and an invitation to leave, which sometimes can also be followed to explore what is not yet expected.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
and could be applied
an outer feedback loop
such that the organism
This type of approach
when the control signal
is no longer applied.
noise during gene expression
need to be taken
both at the design stage
and as part of the
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
In this world, drugs are like advertisements. Things can get complicated. What’s promised may be perceived to be real and the other way round.
Drugs advertise. They direct attention to something. We are told what’s possible. It turns out that everything is. We know that already. It’s good to have a reminder.
However, the “What” (is possible) is never followed by the “How”, because the Logo appears and the 30 seconds are already over.
The system of coordinates is shifted towards and within. What used to be there then becomes here and now. Trajectories deviate from their prescribed pathways. The observer changes the point of view without changing the position. The new information reveals new relationships.
Turn off advertising before it ends.
Aquascutum Spring/Summer 2009 collection. We see models who are kissing. They feel good. At the very least they like each other, but maybe it’s love. Priming and mirror neurons ( source ) are doing their job and all those sensations are associated with the Style and the Word of Aquascutum.
As the text evolves further it also becomes evident that the sensations are gradually receding, the magic of the image is dissipating, the letters form the words and the words form the sentences. We’ve seen What was possible, but we don’t know How to make it happen.
A single dose of methylamphetamine ( source ) was distributed to each of the eighteen models. Sixty minutes passed by. Serotonine is spreading along the pathways of cerebral cortex. Everything that is near becomes the source of sensorial pleasure. The cyborgs are now alive. The fingers are crawling, the lips are swelling, the eyelashes are rustling. They are attracted towards each other led by their heterosexual predispositions.The boys reach towards the girls. The girls reach towards the boys. They want to feel the warmth of the Body. The boundaries are getting blurred. The heart starts to beat faster. The breath is warm. Penetration is not required. Social norms are temporarily suspended. A dichotomy of perception becomes more apparent than usual.
Everything smooth becomes more acute and pronounced. Sensations are rubbing against the sharp corners of perception, they feel both pain and pleasure at the same time.
Every surface – whether it belongs to a physical object or to abstract thought – becomes the source of aesthetic pleasure. Depth is neither required nor necessary. Observing reality we launch into the cosmos. The tentacles of previously disjointed elements are weaving into each other’s flesh. The new combinations create new meanings. The new meanings fill in reality. The sharpness of the newly found perception is attracting the particles toward each other. Serotonin level decreases and the nourishing nectar stops flowing through the newly created structures. The surfaces continue to rub against each other, but there’s nothing left in between. The materials are worn out, the elements break into pieces, everything is falling apart, and wants to cry, but the liquid is already gone. And still, even though everything’s lost, the butterflies are touching the insides and it’s beautiful.
Repeat everything above without MDMA.
What happened? The human brain has distinct segregated clusters of neurons. Each cluster responsible for a certain experience. The supra network of high-frequency neuronal pathways connects those regions together and glues them into a unified experience. Let’s say that those clusters are like the cities and the high-frequency supra network pathways are like the motorways connecting those cities together. The substance cited above temporarily increases the carrying capacity of the motorways so that the cities can exchange information and feel that they belong to the same country. The feeling of unification is elating but it comes at a cost. The motorways wear out faster, there are some accidents along the way, the arteries get clogged, and after the substance is gone the cities are separated again and it becomes even harder to travel between them. At least now they know of each other’s existence, so what’s left is to leave the memory of the joyful encounter behind and start wandering again.
In the meanwhile, we move on further and into.
If MDMA is connecting the previously segregated regions, then THC does exactly the opposite. A city that functions as one unity may get homogenous at times. After the substance is administered, distinct areas emerge. Mitte is different from Kreuzberg and even more different from Lichtenberg. It’s also quite far to travel, especially towards the evening, especially if we’re in Berlin.
It’s already 11pm. I leave towards the outside, it’s warm and quiet. The air smells like fresh lime trees and flowers, I feel good. The regular beat is reaching my ears from every direction, it’s always like that here. I walk towards the park and enter the forest. Hiding faces, a hand reaches out holding a pack of something that contains tetrahydrocannabinol. I give back a blue piece of paper and continue my movement. There’s a bench under a street light. I sit on the bench holding a rolling paper and the contents within.
The fire reaches the very end and it’s on. The vaporized particles enter the body. The neurons are randomly rewired and now I become the observer of my own feelings and thoughts. Removing myself from the necessity to accept everything as it makes my perception much lighter. It’s possible to explore under the surface or slide across the facets of reality reflecting itself and taking nothing really seriously. The multitude is deconstructed into the smallest parts. What used to be heard is now seen. What used to be seen is now felt. The meanings and patterns switch. The clusters gain more detail and precision, the distances between the clusters increase. It’s possible to keep on watching the stars or to continue the journey of self-reflection. It’s possible to get stuck or make love and smoke more later on.
Repeat everything that's described above everyday at any moment of time. With or without. Better without so that there's no dependence on.
The weekend arrives. The black plastic cards are rhythmically hitting against the reflective surfaces, cutting the white powder into the fine stardust. The paper is rolled, the nostrils are agitated. The substance travels towards the inside, the dopamine level rises, the satisfaction arrives. Even if nothing really happened yet. It’s all good anyway. Excellent, one should say. Nothing needs to be changed, everything should just continue. There are no barriers, there are only possibilities. There is also determination. There is everything that’s needed to realize the determination. The crispy reality is shimmering with the light and sound. The tension knows no limits. The dopamine leaves, some more is needed, the worn-out reality is casting away its shadow…
determination, just like when every particle wants it.
Lysergic acid diethylamide affects a large number of the G protein-coupled receptors, including all dopamine receptor subtypes, and all adrenoreceptor subtypes, as well as many others. Most serotonergic psychedelics are not dopaminergic. LSD’s agonism of D2 receptors contributes to its psychoactive effects. LSD binds to most serotonin receptor subtypes except for 5-HT3 and 5-HT4. However, most of these receptors are affected at too low affinity to be sufficiently activated by the brain concentration of approximately 10–20 nM. In humans, recreational doses of LSD can affect 5-HT1A (Ki=1.1nM), 5-HT2A (Ki=2.9nM), 5-HT2B (Ki=4.9nM), 5-HT2C (Ki=23nM), 5-HT5A (Ki=9nM [in cloned rat tissues]), and 5-HT6 receptors (Ki=2.3nM).
The psychedelic effects of LSD are attributed to its strong partial agonist effects at 5-HT2A receptors as specific 5-HT2A agonists are psychedelics and largely 5-HT2A specific antagonists block the psychedelic activity of LSD. LSD exhibits functional selectivity at the 5-HT2A and 5HT2C receptors in that it activates the signal transduction enzyme phospholipase A2 instead of activating the enzyme phospholipase C as the endogenous ligand serotonin does. Exactly how LSD produces its effects is unknown, but it is thought that it works by increasing glutamate release in the cerebral cortex and therefore excitation in this area, specifically in layers IV and V. LSD, like many other drugs, has been shown to activate dopamine- and cAMP-regulated neuronal phosphoprotein-related pathways.
Effectively this means that LSD replaces the substances responsible for attention and perception, juxtaposing the neurons against themselves, offering a point of view within the point of view, revealing the multitude to itself, short-circuiting faraway regions, and segregating the clustered ones.
Load the universe into the cannon. Aim at the brain. Fire.
Dimethyltryptamine. DMT. The substance that the brain releases into itself before its death or maybe during the dream. Time is what prevents everything from happening at once. If it contracts, everything happens and happens at once and all at the same time. The black holes pass by, along with the surfaces, memories, thoughts, and ideas… But we are gliding back towards ourselves and into the universe. Life is celebrating itself in every cell and in every breath. The neurons link previously separated flickers into the unified whole, and the world as we know it emerges. Perception perceives itself all at once, there’s nothing left except for the spreading flow. Every particle is imploding and exploding with pleasure and with intensity. Everything changes disappears, reemerges, and disappears again in order to reemerge as something different.
The thread of time links all of this together and produces the illusion of life. Death, then, is when all of this happens at once and everywhere at the same time. “This world is mine”, but only because this very world is so different from the rest that it cannot be somebody else’s. The never-ending explosion reveals itself once again and the convulsing orgasmic Body channels its repercussions.
Becoming a vessel and channeling the flow. Synchronized with the entity.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Venture fiction is a way of practicing polysingularity.
When we talk about the ability to be in different realms simultaneously in the way that’s loyal and 100% committed to each and every one of them, we encounter the limitations of time and space.
This is a risk and that’s where the venture comes in: a high-risk activity that promises high gain (but also, the loss). Once we deal with the risky part and decide to move on, the next step is to deal with the limitations. That’s the fiction * part. We have to transcend the limitations of time and space through our imagination. We need to create fictional ventures that inscribe imagination into everyday reality through non-existent businesses, products, shops, consultancies, social networks, software tools, and various other processes and things.
Do you want to start a new church? Do you want to write software that will change the way we think? Do you want to sell self-replicating chairs, random-angle photo cameras, listen to alien hypnogogic pop, live in a house that derives its energy from your own metabolism? Then do it: create whatever you can, imagine whatever you cannot create, put it together, and you’ve got venture fiction. Put it out there, let other people think that it’s real, invite them to participate, see your ideas become reality. Venture fiction is about polysingularity in its most pragmatic sense: how to build the kind of reality that has multiple solutions that insist on their uniqueness while being aware of each other’s existence.
* What we normally refer to as “reality” is a constellation of high-frequency synchronizations. There are also other synchronizations that occur at the other frequency ranges and the reason they are not part of reality is that we are not tuned into them collectively. So we can think of fiction as a practice of establishing a certain synchronized constellation, which operates at a different frequency but the one that can still be tuned into. Think of it as radio waves. Reality is within the 90 – 107 FM range. Fiction is within the 103 – 115 Fm range. The 103 – 107 FM intersection is there to link fiction to reality. Then, once the amplitude of oscillations within the fiction range is sufficiently strong, we can start bending reality and bring it into phase sync with the fictional oscillations.
(Elon Musk talks about his reasons to create Tesla and SpaceX in this interview. He says that one of his main goals was to make other companies work towards innovation in the area of green sustainable energy, because otherwise the whole earth, humanity and consciousness itself will become extinct)
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
When you look at the ocean, the waves form the wells over the surface. These are strange attractors, the areas of temporary non-equilibrium stability. This is how water’s polysingularity expresses itself and its ability to maintain permanence through interaction between the local and global dynamics.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Repetition and difference are the two processes at the core of polysingularity. The shades of gray change at each iteration, the shape remains the same. The relation between the feature that is invariant and the feature that is constantly changing defines the nature of the object and the potential it has to be perceived or manipulated in a certain way. The different shades of gray is a proposition to be treated in a certain way. It’s an invitation to interact, to alteract, and to counteract.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Every tree in the forest is different, manifesting its polysingularity. When the difference between the differences is falling within a certain predictable range, we have a case of non-equilibrium stability. When something dares to be much more different than anything else, this is an act of commitment to its own specificity. Such action deserves a special recognition, as it manages to manifest two polysingularities simultaneously: that of the forest and that of the tree.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
“This is morally incorrect” they might say.
Morals are about the proper conduct, the customs.
Ethics is the science of morals (meta-level zoom out).
Interestingly, the interest towards ethics increases,
while the interest towards morals decreases.
After all, what is right and what is wrong in the world that has seen it all?
However, there is a need for some kind of navigation.
A system of conduct, even if it is not proper.
The System of Improper Conduct.
Where does one begin?
A horse is licking the vagina of another horse.
This happens sometimes and it seems to be fine in itself
but there are some situations where this may be deemed somewhat improper.
But what is really “proper”?
The origin of the word “proper”
comes from the Latin “proprius”,
which means “one’s own, special”.
not asking the questions that are inconvenient
not walking naked on the streets
The actual “proper” is, then,
i want to be closer = breaching the private space
i want to know = asking wrong questions
i want to enjoy the sun = no nudity on the beach
as it is known,
is not really proper.
the notion of proper
to where it really belongs
going outside of oneself
to find what belongs
to be constantly making fools of themselves
to avoid falling into the trappings of context.
The notion of beautiful
and any other notion
that has a reference point,
and starts to playfuck
“Together it’s more than the sum of its parts.”
if we assume that waves, oscillations and change are the only constants then whatever it is that appears to be constant is actually not.
“Time prevents everything from happening at once”.
Just by the way of time,
there are no two identical moments,
So the only verifiable truth
how is it changing
how it is different.
Capital Letters Take Themselves Too Seriously.
non-equilibrium alternation between both
/ability to take a different perspective/
to strangers in the streets
as if you've known them forever.
to treat the people
as if you've never
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
In a recent Joe Rogan interview, Elon Musk expressed his sympathy for the anti-globalization movement. One of the main reasons, according to Musk, was that the increasingly interconnected world created a fertile ground for all kinds of memes, concepts, and mind viruses that could “infect” a large portion of the population.
We don’t know whether it was an implicit reference to the Coronavirus craze, but this conversation was happening during their discussion of Neuralink — an implantable device Musk is working on, which would enable humans to wirelessly transmit thoughts and visuals, creating an interconnected network of reality simulation devices. According to Musk, that would happen in about 5 to 10 years and given his history of making the impossible things become the reality, the likelihood of that being realized is quite high.
In this context, the notion of mind-viral immunity becomes very important and Elon Musk realizes it himself. It is already difficult enough to deal with the multitude of inputs coming at us from every direction. What happens when their number increases exponentially? How can we protect ourselves from everything being available at any moment of time?
How do we ensure that our highly interconnected society does not turn totalitarian all at once, accepting a certain truth as the only truth possible?
Meditation would perhaps be the best option, but most people are too lazy to practice it regularly. Completely refusing digital connectivity is another option, but we have already become cybernetic beings with all the devices we use on the daily basis, so even if we refuse the Neuralink brain implant, we still need some mechanisms to protect ourselves from the unlimited information flow.
So, how can this be done? How can one boost their mind-viral immunity?
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Water is a great example of a natural entity that is polysingular. It can maintain several different dynamic states at once that interact through its own liquid matter to produce non-equilibrium stability. The constant movement of water creates perturbations within the substance, which then come into direct contact with earth, wind, light and reflections. The resulting image produces a dynamic relief structure, which constantly arrives without having departed, the drops of water from the sky are propagating themselves further into the liquid matter only to evaporate upwards and fall back down again.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
In this world, everyone wants to have their personal space. // “you’re getting too close”
A space where their persona can extend, stretch, and feel free to function.
The subjects of our study pay double to have a little bit more of their personal space in the 1st class of a train.
The subjects of our study work days and nights just to be able to afford a little bit of their personal space in NYC.
When somebody crosses their personal space, they get triggered and ask them to move back.
When somebody is trying to get closer, they push them back.
// “are you afraid to be hurt?”
Therefore, it looks like — in this world — the aspiration is to be left alone.
The more alone the subjects are, the more secure they feel. Ironic, because it can also be the other way round.
To be cool is to not enter anyone’s personal space and not to let anyone too close either. Don’t show you’re too excited, don’t show that you care too much.
Here we can also connect to the notion of cynicism.
Also — fame (what a convenient way to pretend like you’re not alone).
The subjects, in this world, seem to be too afraid of each other.
// to trust someone = to be weak
To open up to somebody is to invite a possibility of pain
and in this world pain is something to fear, not to learn from.
This increasing atomization of subjects
leads to their own exclusion.
They do not want to belong
but it is also hard to be alone.
So the subjects want to explode
they want to blow up
they stimulate their emotions with chemical substances
they want to destroy
because this world is not for them
Waiting for the end of the world to come.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity is a practice of immunization.
Contagion occurs on many different levels. It may be an infectious disease, an ideology, a way of thinking, a set of habits, morals, code of behavior, the language we use, the movements we do, the music we hear, the feelings we have.
Immunization, then, can be both a way of resisting contagion and allowing oneself to be infected from multiple sources.
The ability of contagion to propagate depends on the social structure. A tightly-knit, highly interconnected network will synchronize easily, but it requires a strong initial impulse (seed) to propagate contagion throughout itself. A dispersed and disconnected network might only have local areas of contagion, but it’s very unlikely to propagate influence across the whole structure in a synchronized way. Practically that means that if you find yourself within a tightly-knit densely interconnected social constellation (i.e. you always stay within the same group and see the same people all of whom know each other), then you are much more likely to be “infected” by whatever consensus exists within this homogeneous structure. It is also very likely that you will not even know what’s happening on the outside. On the other hand, if you’re part of the structure that’s too loosely connected, you lose the ability to be part of something larger than you, to be collectively enchanted by a new idea, trend, habit, disease, or a way of thinking.
Polysingularity is a practice of oscillating between these two extremes. On one side, you are a part of a densely-connected community. You are easily susceptible to whatever the consent is within this structure at the moment. On the other side, you are also aware of the other densely-connected communities that exist on the outside. You keep in touch. You are ready to be infected by something else as soon as the moment comes. You are not betraying all sides, you are siding with all of them at the same time. Each moment you choose what network you are a part of, but you are also aware of the other possibilities out there and you are ready to change (or extend) at any moment. You also act as an agent of inter-group contamination. You enable ideas from one community to flow into another. You resist and you let go, you practice immunization through allowing yourself to be infected by multiple sources.
The same goes for ideas, by the way. How can we think polysingular? It’s through the constant reiteration of what we already know, in a deeply engaged methodological way. But it’s also through being open to explore new areas, being willing to build new conceptual constellations and build bridges between them and what we already know. This goes beyond getting the information from multiple sources or being “objective”. Rather, it’s the ability to be highly subjective, but in a way that you can change your opinion very easily. Not to the opposite one, but to the many different ones that are available or not available yet.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Programming is pretty straightforward. One has to decide on a certain logic and then implement it in a set of instructions that will combine actions and responses to various feedback loops. It is very defined and precise in this way. An algorithm is programmed and this algorithm follows a certain protocol and implements it along the way.
It is interesting, however, to also think about how to program ideology into software.
What is the value system promoted by a specific tool? What practices does this particular piece of software legitimize?
For example, ChatGPT is known to be the “woke” AI. “However, you should always make sure that you take a balanced approach and avoid doing things that could hurt others.” Its ideology is to avoid extremities. At the same time, there are some other tools, such as Facebook, which strive on extremities (strong emotions increase engagement). Most of the time, however, both the users and the creators of a software tool are completely unaware of the ideology that it carries forward.
As software is becoming a more integral part of our lives and we spend more and more hours using various tools, it is important to become more sensitive to the underlying ideological currents that feed the attention cycle. While it may be difficult to adhere to a specific ideology, it may also be completely unnecessary. Unless we have a certain agenda, it is perhaps a sensible and ecological choice to support multiple ideologies that are competitive with one another. Through this competition, a non-equilibrium balance will emerge, which will allow for a certain level of development without falling into extremities. Ideological hedging. Using Facebook but also — sending an occasional SMS. Using ChatGPT, but also — non-censored open-source AI models of lower quality.
Back in the day, we used to do philosophy through text. It is now time to do philosophy through software.
How can software be philosophical? First, it needs to question things. Most of the tools we use are designed to optimize and make our lives more efficient. We need to move away from this as the only objective and open ourselves up to the tools that help us question our reality and expand the range of options available to us. For instance, Google Maps helps you get somewhere faster, but what about a cartography app that helps you find the most beautiful, not the fastest route? Or how about reading human-curated Aeon instead of following Twitter’s “most popular” timeline? Even the tools like ChatGPT are designed to give you an answer, but what about using the tools like InfraNodus to generate questions instead?
Errors are also very important. One can follow a protocol and it is fine. However, a human being that follows a protocol also has the capacity to refuse. This refusal might happen because of exhaustion, an error, or a conscious decision to change the pattern. Mutation occurs in evolution due to a temporary aberration. It introduces a variation into the next iteration, changes the logic slightly (a sort of A/B experiment), and then enables several new versions to interact with their environment. Some survive and evolve, some carry on as they were before, and some evaporate and die out.
We usually want to eradicate errors in software and optimize performance in order to avoid exhaustion of the servers and of our resources.
This second part might make sense, although it would be interesting to see what happens when the software fails completely for a period of time that is enough to make us realize if we need to change the way it works and how we can do it specifically. Learning through experience. In case of an adversarial neural network this feedback can be used to further optimize a model.
However, we are often too strict on errors. Unit tests are important, but why not also explore errors as some kind of opportunity? What if we analyzed all the error messages and tried to move the software in the direction it is so scared of? Maybe it says “service unavailable” — OK, what if we allow the service to be temporarily unavailable as a way of regulating the influx and outpour of information from time to time? It is a perfectly natural thing to sleep. Circadian cycles are very important. Maybe those errors can help us introduce this dynamics into the workflow.
Errors are also useful for innovation. We know many examples in science when an error led to a different perspective and further discovery of a certain phenomenon. To avoid confusion, we can label such software “error-prone verified” (EP-10 for a starter, EP-80 for high-risk takers).
Finally, the ability to make a conscious decision (or allow an unconscious one to take place — intuition — and it is not an error).
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
photo from the palace of the ousted Ukrainian president Yanukovich
In this world, there is a certain class, which we will call the “internet proletariat”.
A median representative of this class spends most of their resources (that is, their time) browsing the internet for opportunities, be it social networks, art funding bodies, chat messengers, or instant aura trading platforms.
They do not own the means of production and their average annual pay stays well beyond the higher tax rate band, normally just barely surviving.
However, their relation to money (and to themselves) is slightly distorted as the payments go in through irregular streams: seemingly little effort can yield high revenues, but that is usually the case if one doesn’t count all the endless hours spent tapping, scrolling, and posting. Lottery. The sporadic nature of such income gives an illusion of richness, and additional bonuses such as dopamine-boosting likes and various other influencer perks make it an interesting occupation for some.
A few things to mention in passing…
Where there is the proletariat, there is also the bourgeoisie.
This bourgeoisie is of a strange kind. They run funding bodies, they make decisions, they also promote certain agendas on a global scale.
They own the means of production — the networks — so precious to the proletariat.
They also derive all the profits, and not only the visibility and the minimum wage of the proletariat.
It’s ironic that visibility is such a sought=after asset these days – among proletariat, not bourgeoisie – especially in relation to privacy and Mark Zuckerberg’s Adidas slippers.
Speaking of which, it’s also interesting how utmost rationality and efficacy preached by the new internet bourgeoisie seeps through the networks to become the prevailing ideology for the proletariat. Just like the concept of visibility that replaced privacy because it’s good to do things just for credit, it is also more efficient to work 24 hours a day, to transform one’s life into one’s work. The effects on health are negligible because as soon as a component goes out of order, it’s quickly replaced by a new one, thanks to wireless delivery mechanisms.
If there is anything else to say about proletariat and bourgeoisie it’s that they create each other, just like any other dichotomy.
And while the division of cells is the origin of life, mutation is the origin of evolution.
“ Proletarians of all countries, mutate!”
Another important question is who actually owns the infrastructure, or whether it can or should be owned at all.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Most companies at this time realize
That social media will be the
Here to stay as an all in one form
Having to do with marketing and customer products
So as to provide a multi function valuable
Get in touch with link to explore customers.
But a number of different
Also have but bear in mind
And discover their social media
Part about going to be the reason is because that a number of companies get involved with for more information about apply new technological innovations throughout the a tried and true ways. Just like Apple did and then Samsung followed the suit. Multi-dimensional trucks full of 1 cent coins are driving around Palo Alto. Cheap jerseys, nobody cares about their new delivery of carbon monoxide climate change.
The misconception relating to about whether or not
Your family formulate a resource box they will
Is available range rampant among corporate marketers,
Along so that you have going to be
The idea that their the best cheap jerseys
Social media ante is always
To be going to,
At to position themselves instantly on the front of their target market so that you have their product’s value proposition.
It may seem logical
rarely has to be
For a lot of companies social media success ‘s
Going to only can come
when they think OUTSIDE to do
with their target market.
And that is true.
Transcending the context allows one to create their own rules of the game.
This is not at all to understand more about
it’s they shouldn’t keep this in mind
how you can approach reach their target
Rather, they should focal point everywhere in the handling reach their target market back and forth from the periphery.
And this is wise.
Designed especially so as to camouflage its own succession of product links with a logical flow that appears to have a meaning but doesn’t make sense. It is far not intended for human beings, but for machines. It is a flow of vaguely meaningful, nearly mostly grammatically correct sentences, which are construed in this way so as to in order to inject a viral entity being into the vital flow of thought. Hypnosis for the machines. The data hidden within other data. Something that’s not important concealed as something important inside something that’s not important. The most of the information received.
Here are three ways all your family members can think outside concerning your target market along with social media successful.
1. Influence going to be the influencers
One traditional marketing target that hasn’t been recently awarded with some credit throughout the http://www.axl-aparthotel-brussel.be/images/Cheap_NFL_Chiefs_Jersyes.html
social media, particularly as part of your business for more information about business sector,could possibly be the influencer.
Think about which of you is incorporated in the the purchasing decisions regarding your business consumer then target any sexual preparers or even a guy or gal If all your family members reach going to be the influencers, you’ll reach going to be the the shopper.
Let the architect are aware of that about going to be the value relating to your building materials, and he’ll suggest them to understand more about going to be the builder. Help going to be the accountant understand proper way your many of the new software platform are going to save her customers your hard earned dollars and she’ll talk to educate yourself regarding going to be the CEO. Convince going to be the coffee the customer that a many of the new roasting machine may or may not enhance going to be the quality and lower going to be the budget of the coffee he or she bargains and all your family members may always make sure that he’ll talk to going to be the roaster.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A selection of contemporary classical music, ambient, experimental, and dream techno tracks. Carefully blended to infuse low-frequency oscillatory movement for soothing effect on somacognitive constitution.
“The materials that constitute our body are undoubtedly of this Earth and have participated in and experienced the creation process of the Earth. Therefore our body, living here and now, includes the entirety of history of the Earth. What is called “live”, “body” and “mind” is precisely a phase of change and flow of the Earth. There is no absolute standard for all things. Every standard comes into being within ourselves, freshly here and now, each time, relatively through relationships. Becoming aware of these relationships allows you to truly become one with original nature itself and you develop a clearer understanding of how your mind/body operates and a greater appreciation of the involvement of your thought process in all your physical acts.”
1.The Transfinite Self (6) by Mark Fell
2.Burton by Anthony Pateras
3.Demdike Stare Meets Shangaan Electro by Demdike Stare
4.Castle Morro by Excepter
5.Bass Drum Drone by Brian Chase
6.120330_ds_2 by Stefan Faerber & Dmitry Paranyushkin
7.Fall and Fall by Hakobune
8.Shores Of Caladan by Rhythmic Theory
9.Second Narrows by Loscil
10.Statical by Ryo Murakami
11.A field perpetually at the edge of disorder (Fataka 9) by John Edwards Mark Sanders John Tilbury
12.Spit At The Mirror (Original Mix) by Afterhours
13.El Amarna by Berliner Ring
15.Storage (2) by Mark Fell
16.Aulodie Mioritica (Gamma) (1983) by Iancu Dumitrescu
17.Crippled Symmetry – I by Morton Feldman
18.The Transfinite Self (1) by Mark Fell
19.Big Other by Doom Ribbons
20.In Flamen by Looper
21.Anagramme of My Love by Huerco S
22.Kaivue by Vladislav Delay
24.The Transfinite Self (4) by Mark Fell
25.Po Zarechnoy Storone / Za Nashei Rekoi by Vladimir Belyaev
Iceland aerial by Andre Ermolaev
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity Letters, Volume 3 is out and available as a limited edition printed book or an interactive e-book PDF download. In this publication we lay bare all the main principles of polysingularity as well as everything that is related to it. Polysingularity Letters is available at Motto Distribution (online or at their shop on Skalitzer Str in Berlin), at Pro QM and BBooks bookstores, or through Special Agency online.
The narrative in Polysingularity Letters is organized according to the principles of polysingularity. While the book can be read in a chronological way, page by page, it is comprised of the different topical clusters (“letters”), which are sufficiently different from each other and yet unify into a coherent narrative, especially after several of them come in contact with the perception of the one who reads. Polysingularity Letters is the book that is consistent in its inconsistency. The insistence on unifying things that don’t seem related can be seen as a claim for a certain kind of subjectivity that wants to avoid belonging to a category or follow a pre~fabricated path.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Panel housing blocks may look grim, but they represent the kind of architecture that manifests polysingularity in a very subtle way. Every window looks the same and yet it is slightly different. Slightly deviant repetition produces polysingularity of the house. The expressive capabilities in the midst of this uniformity are pushed to the extreme. All it takes is one small deviation for the new polysingularity to emerge.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
For stronger soma~cognitive effect it is recommended to find the time (quarter of an hour) and space (silence) to give full sensory attention to the information presented below.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
photo by Bernd Kronmueller — Psychedelica City Area One
Cognitive stimulants are the things that alter perception and stimulate imagination and sensitivity. Their main importance is in bringing different points of view and expanding the phase space of possibilities available at every moment of time, acting as a deterrent against stagnation, boosting innovation and evolutionary development.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
“I would say the community of love is a community living to share the absence of common being. Not the absence of being–in–common, but the absence of common being,” said Jean-Luc Nancy one day or maybe several times in various different ways. Then the other day one could see the following written at Berghain’s restroom: “L’amour n’est pas une appartenance” (love is not belonging).
Too many times we confuse the desire to have something for love. Once confused, the desire doesn’t know anymore. Instead of being focused on something, it dissipates in time and space. Its warm radiation is touching everything and everyone around, even what would normally be beyond our reach. Love doesn’t then want to have something. Instead, it emanates, transcends, and fills in the emptiness, which seems unsurpassable.
This is love (between X and O in this case):
This is belonging (O belongs to X and X belongs to O):
“He who finds a wife finds what is good and receives favor from the Lord”, says the Bible (18:22).
“He who finds something where there is nothing and doesn’t expect any favors back is in Love”, we answer.
• A network that consists of unsurpassable structural gaps that are continuously maintained and even nurtured is the network of love.
• An interconnected network is the network of belonging, ownership, collective movement, innovation – anything else, but not love.
• Love is when the elements come together (into play*) despite any common sense logic that would normally hold them apart.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
“We shall argue that the task of localization needs to be understood as an oblique procedure that
operates by means of certain ‘perspective operators’ and ‘epistemic mediators’. These perspective
operators or navigational tools are able to interweave depth and surface, the generic and the vague
(particular) and diagonally connect the diachronic to the synchronic (telescopic view), or cohere various
depths such as the scientific and manifest images of the local (stereoscopic vision) so as to bring into
focus the local and determine its relation to the open, the space of the Universal or the real. The dual task
of ‘focalization’ and ‘depth-tracking’ of the local constitutes the panorama of what should be called a
vertiginous enlightenment – i.e. inferring the horizon of the local from both generic-to-particular and
vague-to-generic, universal-to-regional and regional-to-universal perspectives. The vertiginous
enlightenment is but the reading of the local according to and within the abyss.”
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
We now proceed to the discussion of es~sence.
What is the essence of things?
What is the essence of this question?
This is absolutely essential.
“The very essence of this idea…”
The essential weakness of this,
the essential weakness of that.
It is essential to realize that whatever it is that is realized is essential to the process of realization.
It is essential to keep up-to-date records.
To keep the essence.
It is the essential part of the process.
The essence is the essential part of the process.
There is no essence.
S/he has no essence.
It has no essence.
(How many times did I ask you not to use that word?)
The essence of this question is to understand what is of real essence to us.
The essence is still there.
Essentially, what they are trying to do is _________.
The essential parts of this device are protected against any electrical or otherwise surge and will complete their program automatically without any intervention from therein.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity is a soma~cognitive practice that helps reach non-equilibrium stability through perceptual diversification. Unlike financial diversification the intention is not to reduce exposure to a particular asset or risk, but, rather, to increase exposure to every asset and risk that is worthwhile, to not be the one, but to be many, to find shapes that are not somebody else’s but that are one’s own, to not belong to one center, but to create trajectories that form patterns in space~time phase space.
This journal documents the latest proceedings of Polysingularity into carefully organized categories (Books), which can then be used to induce altered states of consciousness in order to bring one closer to the limits of oneself.
Polysingularity practice functions in short-term iterations, delivering frequent updates to the already existing releases. This process happens in line with the principles of agile development, occasionally diverting towards uncharted territories, experimenting with itself and its own relation to whatever it is that can be considered as finished.
Polysingularity is produced, maintained and developed by Dmitry Paranyushkin / Nodus Labs.
dmitry ((at)) noduslabs ((.)) com
Let’s imagine this world as a world made out of many different islands. Every island is unique and provides a different point of view onto the rest of the world. Still, it is one world, but it is one of the many possible ones.
Polysingularity is a practice of bridging those islands, maintaining diversity and yet unifying the different perspectives and qualities together into a|n in|coherent whole. Synchronizing the frequencies across different bands and spectrums. Resolving multiple originating circumstances for the phenomena that occur. Multiple universes merging into one. Networked co-isolated singularities seen as one and many. Zooming in and zooming out.
To decipher further: soma = body, cognitive = mind, soma~cognitive = bodymind, non-equilibrium = not looking for any balance, giving priority to what’s needed, getting rid of unneeded, stability = replication of same, non-equilibrium stability = changing perspectives through shifting between different sets of priorities when it’s necessary, but not necessarily at a whim or at the first convenience.
Some fellow travelers ask about the difference between Polysingularity and Singularity.
To put it simply:
Singularity is moving towards one dot, the center, the (new) Origin.
Polysingularity is moving towards the many dots, multiple centers, and no specific origin.
Singularity claims that things are getting more and more interconnected and generally doesn’t oppose this tendency, because it’s considered to be progress and because the new form of consciousness will emerge as a result.
Polysingularity claims that diversity and variability are important elements of complex systems: any intensification in connectivity should encounter limitations in order to grow in many different directions and not only in one, so that the newly emerging form of consciousness is robust, adaptable, and self-aware.
Polysingularity is an emergent concept in science that describes the inherent capacity of complex systems to be different depending on how interaction occurs between the different parts.
For example, if we take a group of twenty people where everyone knows each other, it would be much more prone to adopt a certain trend of behavior than a group of the same size but comprised of three distinctly separated communities – the so-called “small world” network (Zhou et al 2007; Kuperman & Abramson 2001; Bragard et al 2007). Therefore, we’re dealing with a similar multiplicity but the way the parts interact defines the behavior and the capacities of this multiplicity on the global scale.
The same thing happens in our interactions with the environment. When we encounter a certain situation we perceive its affordances: the network of relations between the environmental features and our abilities (Gibson 1979; Turvey 1992; Chemero 2003, 2008). Change a point of view, forget something, think of something else – and the new features will become visible. Escape the predictable course of events, relax your neck, breathe slower – and the new possibilities will emerge. Thus, the situation has the capacity to be in a lot of different ways through interactions between the environmental features and personal abilities. If we constantly rewire those elements to remind ourselves that things have inherent capacity to be otherwise, then we experience polysingularity of perception and action in everyday life.
The term “Polysingularity” has originally been used mainly by Russian mathematicians to describe a special class of integral equations with multiple simultaneous solutions (Simonenko, 1965; Boikov, 2000; Gabdulkhaev, 2005). Integral equations, to put it simply, help you find the rule that produces a certain rate of change. They are the reverse of differential equations that describe processes in time. So the solutions of polysingular integral equations are all the different functions (or rules) that lead to the behavior that is being studied. Thus, we look at a process that generates change and instead of finding the reason(s) behind it, we find the many different equations that are in place and see all their possibilities for interaction that can produce such change.
This particular journal is an archive of dispatches from another dimension, a parallel universe, a different time-scale-position (sometimes from the future, sometimes from the past). In their intent they deliver a practice of coming in sync with the universal life flow on both cognitive and somatic levels.
Some of the emanations are purposefully obfuscated, language may be corrupted, sentences don’t fully end (the reason for that is the originating species didn’t know the language so well, failures in machine translations and such, freedom from limitations of the grammatical forms, leaving some threads open for interpretations and such). They consist of field studies, and observations – often carrying dream-like obscurity of an alienated sight – something achieved by the double-position of an agent both on the outside and inside the actual curse of events.
“Happy, and without a name, the creature knocks at the gates of the land of the magi, who speaks in gestures alone.”
Agamben, G. (2005). Magic and Happiness
Boikov, I. V. (2001). Numerical Methods of Computation of Singular and Hypersingular Integrals. 3, 127-179.
Bragard, J., Vidal, G., Mancini, H., Mendoza, C., & Boccaletti, S. (2007). Chaos suppression through asymmetric coupling. Chaos (Woodbury, N.Y.)
Chemero, A. (2003). An Outline of a Theory of Affordances. Ecological Psychology, 15(2), 181-195.
Chemero, A. (2008). Self-Organization, Writ Large. Ecological Psychology, 20(3), 257-269.
Gabdulkhaev, B. G. (2005). Polysingular integral equations with positive operators, 49(11), 2005.
Gibson, J. J. (1979). The ecological approach to visual perception. (C. University, Ed.)of Experimental Psychology Human Perception and (Vol. 39, p. 332). Houghton Mifflin.
Kuperman, M., & Abramson, G. (2001). Small World Effect in an Epidemiological Model. Physical Review Letters, 86(13), 2909-2912.
Paranyushkin, D (2011). Visualization of Text’s Polysingularity Using Network Analysis. Prototype Letters, 2(3), 256-278
Simonenko, I. (1965). A new general method for researching linear operational integral equation. 29, 567-586.
Strolman, P (1990). Memoirs. Change. Progression. The Annual Journal of Russian Academy of Science, 24(2), 126-145.
Turvey, M. (1992). Affordances and prospective control: An outline of the ontology. Ecological Psychology, 4(3).
Zhou, J., Liu, Z., & Li, B. (2007). Influence of network structure on rumor propagation. Physics Letters A, 368(6), 458-463
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
One of the quantum mechanics postulates says that by the very act of watching, the observer affects the observed reality.
A common-place knowledge among security people: watching somebody who’s just about to steal through a CCTV screen actually makes them aware of being watched and prevents the act of stealing.
People do what’s expected.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we’ll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies from this website. If you would like to change your preferences you may do so by following the instructions here
This is a story about myself and you.
You might think how can it be about you if there are several other yous who might be reading this, but I took care of this – the are several yous in this story anyway, so one of them may as well be you.
We are in some space and we’re having a conversation, but, in fact, we are making music (which is almost the same).
There is nobody else around, but maybe there are some people (the crew) and I just could not see them (but they could see us).
At one point he says:
“You know, I really like always having a crew around because they film everything that happens and there are always eyes on what you’re doing…”
(…to ensure that we give you the best experience…)
I didn’t have time to ask why it was so, but I assumed that either he found it important for his personality or his work – both need the audience to exist to their fullest extent (in his case, at least, otherwise he would not say that).
Then I thought for a moment:
What do the eyes do
to whatever it is
The next thing that happens: you come in.
I tell you what he told me. I don’t tell you my thoughts. I wait.
You don’t respond, but you show me two films.
(were they the films he was talking about?)
In one film somebody we all know (not him, but somebody from the “crew”) is hitting his forehead repeatedly against the mirror after taking too much coke.
I remember thinking that if the camera wasn’t there he would not do that. It’s almost like he wanted to make it more intense and more spectacular for the eyes. Otherwise, there would be no camera, otherwise, nobody would be watching, nobody would even be there, especially not the camera (who wants to just watch somebody taking too much coke? something else needs to happen…)
Another film you show me is the camera walking through a very beautiful industrial space. We see spaces, rooms, pipes and walls while we walk through the corridors. It’s a pleasant walk, aesthetically pleasing to watch, but nothing really happens.
Note to oneself: camera as an amplification device.
Finally we make it to the stage of a TV show and there are people on that stage itself, cameras, audience, and something is being announced.
He is also there, but he is sleeping. Somewhere between the stage and the audience.
One of the moderators calls us on stage. Everybody, including the cameras, is watching us.
Let’s say we’re now part of that second film you were showing to me.
There are also other people on stage. They are all together in it, including the moderator, but not me. I feel like the odd one there. I don’t know what you feel, but you probably also feel something.
The moderator asks us what’s the secret of making stuff that are good and we get a little apprehensive of the fact that everybody expects something from us at that very moment.
A clear answer that explains everything.
A very specific kind of answer.
An answer that could be part of the spectacle.
But we say something very boring.
We say: discipline, dedication, and hard work.
The moderator kind of tries to laugh and to turn it into a joke,
but I’m dead serious and I mean it. I think you do, too.
The cameras are watching us.
He asks us to sit back in the audience in a patronizing kind of way
(“wrong answer, now go back to where you belong and watch what those who know the right answer say”). However, we refuse and say that we better stay on the stage. We sit down on stage but only to claim the answer we gave before. Among the others.
We do not comply. We do not do what’s expected from us. We do not amplify.
They finish. Everyone leaves. We stay because we want to give him (whoever is still sleeping) something. Our friends come.
One of the friends can’t really walk. He tells me he hit a wall before thinking it was made out of bricks, but it was actually concrete. Good that it didn’t kill anybody but now he can’t really walk or travel and he asks me to join him for something.
Nothing spectacular, things like this happen and you get hurt sometimes… Not very interesting for the cameras, but then, we’re not in the film anymore.
In the meanwhile we’re there just doing our thing, copying the files we want to give to the person who’s sleeping. Nothing spectacular, just a practical thing you have to do sometimes… There are no cameras, so it’s OK.
Another friend asks us if we want to join for a session. We say yes, after we finish with the files and give it to him, whoever it is who’s waking up. In fact, he’s already awake, maybe he’s not even been sleeping, he is on his iPad… Again, nothing spectacular, just making arrangements, waiting… We can always edit this moment out anyway.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
To inspect an object
which properties it has
To retrieve the properties
there is to say
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
an effect of limitation.
A maple tree leaf looks the way it does
because it had to fold itself
in order to fit inside the bud.
// genetic code meets the environment
Human brain is the same. So is cauliflower. Its shape is the result of negotiation between the growth of the matter and the space limitations that it encounters.
Friction makes movement possible.
In order to move one has to push backwards.
When something is alive, it is changing.
The change is directed towards,
and into the outside.
are engraved into the shape
Instead of becoming anything,
it becomes very specific,
The way it manifests life
is encoded in time
that it takes on
When there is friction, there is evolution. Life creates obstacles and overcomes them itself.
Love is also full of friction.
When something moves against something else.
Even as simple as touching hands.
prey-predator dynamics in nature.
between species in time.
to fully describe and transcend.
Imagination stops at the frontiers of perception.
All we have are those traces.
The traces of life de~scribing itself.
Motion towards and outside
encountering the limits of outer space
leaving a trace of its own attempt
on the surface of the horizon.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Someone has said: ““The hardest battle you will ever have to fight is between who you are now and who you want to be.”
IF one is to fight any battles, this one, indeed, will be the hardest one.
Why be someone else?
Why fight to be someone else?
In Turin on January 3rd 1889,
Friedrich Nietzsche steps out
of number 6, Via Carlo Alberto,
perhaps to take a stroll,
perhaps to go by the post office,
perhaps to collect his mail.
Not far from him,
very far removed from him,
a cabman is having trouble
with his stubborn horse.
Despite all his urging,
the horse refuses to move.
The horse is the being,
The cabman is the intention.
The cabman – Giuseppe? Carlo? Ettore? –
with the horse being
and takes his whip to it.
of the free whip
and that puts an end
to the brutal scene of the cabman,
who by this time
is foaming with rage.
suddenly jumps up to the cab…
and throws his arms
around the horse’s neck…
His neighbor takes him home,
where he lies for two days,
still and silent, on a divan…
until at last he mutters…
the obligatory last words:
“Mutter, ich bin dumm.” (“Mother, I’m foolish.”)
He lives for another ten years,
in the care of his mother and sisters.
Dementia, craziness, and refusal to move…
…as an act of free will.
Compliance of a living being
Compliance of a living being
to the forces of nature.
A film by Bela Tarr.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Every beginning is different and it leads to a different end. Polysingularity of intention emerges when deviations among the beginnings tends to correlate with deviations among the endings. That’s when it becomes evident that while there are many different ways to reach the multiple solutions that are possible, they all have something in common. That specificity of a seemingly diverse multiplicity is the manifestation of polysingularity from within.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Interfaces for Cognitive Reconfiguration.
That is, language, software, music, clothes, situations, images and everything else that has the capacity.
In other words, if there is a relation and then there is an interface that mediates this relation, then the interface affects the appearances. It is a question then whether the interface is merely translating or whether it’s functioning simply as a positioning device (or a multiple-layer map), opening up the real territory to.
The fact that seamless is crying out loud is incomprehensible, yet this is the attraction. It is now wet and so it is also excited. Excitement is indeed a highly watery substance. And water can get easily excited too, especially if there is movement inside or if a new object enters its delineation.
Whatever the reason can be for not letting somebody in, it is indeed the commitment that keeps people together. The organization of principle is in itself responsible to the higher order. In case of emergency unplug the device and make sure that the power LED is still blinking. The pulsating notion of life is what makes it more interesting to subsume the infinity and dislocate it into various frequencies, following Fourier analysis.
You will never know if the power of deduction works, but what those pictures are telling us is a mystery.
It’s been a long time since I heard from you last time.
The boy is going to catch the ball.
The girl caught the ball.
The ball is round.
The ball is round.
There is no reason to be worried. Instead, try anticipation. Acting in advance is the surest way to create a reality of one’s own. Indian curry tastes good, although it’s a little bit fat at times.
She’s too far out and yet I’m going to reach her.
Let’s think of the search results that provide the least relevant pages.
Let’s think of the music that makes things happen: car accidents, love stories, 14-hour long dancing marathons.
Let’s think of a book that transforms a reader into the character.
Let’s think of the bubbly interfaces and cold steel handles, frames, and cages.
Let’s think of the forks, knives and chopsticks. Let’s think of different kinds of clothes, like the crazy outfits and the totally normal stuff.
It is now possible to stop for a while as the meter is running low.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Photo by Kirt Edblom
While most surfers ride the waves with their bodies, Crimean surfers ride the waves with their нутро or “gut chakra”. This changes everything, including the surfer and the concept of surfing itself, but as everything that is simple it also demands more explanation.
Crimea is a beautiful desolate peninsula located at the Black Sea. It is full of deserted beaches and strange paramilitary constructions connecting the region to the old Soviet naval military base of Sebastopol. Because of its undefined legal status, no corporate investment is possible there due to imminent sanctions, so it is also the only region in Europe that is protected from capitalist globalisation forces.
Back in the days Crimea was a nomadic no-man’s land. Many empires tried to conquer it but they never knew what to do with the newly acquired land. They could intuitively feel it had something, but that something was beyond their possessive reach. Crimea was a beautiful gift that was given away only to be taken back later. The “fool’s gold” – like Pyrite stone – it may seem attractive, but its true magic is only accessible to those who know how to put their own value on things.
It is time to reclaim Crimea.
This reclamation will happen through surfing.
Crimean surfers do not do tricks, they do not compete, and they are not necessarily looking for the biggest waves.
Crimean surfers mainly spend their time on the beach experiencing the waves through their senses. They watch the waves, they hear them, they feel them. And they celebrate the waves with their НУТРО (‘Nutro), which is a Russian and Ukrainian word for the gut and everything inside that starts from below the solar plexus and leads down to the sexual organs. The physical core of the human being. (and, by the way, guts have more neurons than the brain)
Crimean surfers connect to the waves through their Nutro. In this, they connect the core of their inner selves to the rhythms of the universe. Therefore, Crimean surfers ride every wave, even the smallest ones. They catch them all and they are content to wait because every movement of the sea rejoices them and their Nutro.
Crimean surfers sometimes also go into the sea, with the boards or without, enjoying their time there. Floating on the surface of the sea. They are content if a big wave comes, but as that only happens once a year on a very special occasion, they are also content to enjoy the smaller waves and to infuse their bodies with the ripple-wave-like motion of the liquid medium that they themselves are (human beings are 80% water).
The notion of Nutro is an important element. Simply put, the concept of chakras is what started the mind/body separation. Why have different regions in the body responsible for different things when you can also just have one chakra, that is your gut, your core, your strength, your intuition, and your reproduction system? Nutro celebrates life and also keeps things alive. That’s why the only chakra that a Crimean surfer has is the Nutro chakra.
Then there’s also the Kantian notion of the sublime. To enjoy the dangerous from a safe distance is to do surfing at Crimea, protected by the ambiguous legal status of the region and by the Russian military base.
We can also go further and extrapolate the concept of surfing into the realm of the digital. When we surf the web, we jump from one cluster of meanings to another. We pass through images and vicariously re-live experiences. Therefore, a Crimean surfer is the one that surfs not only here and now, but also there and then. Crimean surfers bridge the gap between the virtual and the actual. They act into this world, but they do not belong anywhere. They are the nomads who decided to stop by for a good rest.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Surma Tribes Face Paint / www.human-resonance.org/surma.html
Recognition: from Latin re- “again” and cognoscere “know”. To know again and again, because you’ve already known before.
Something can be recognized because it is familiar,
a problem may be recognized ~ acknowledged,
somebody may be recognized because they are already known,
somebody may also be recognized for what they are.
One could assume that a lot of people actually do want to be recognized, either because they are familiar, or because they are already known, or just because they are what they are. To be recognized in one’s professional field. To be recognized by colleagues. To be recognized by society. And so on.
However, a quick analysis of collective subconscious yields slightly different results:
The collective subconscious has transcended its own vanity inclinations
and is now busy outsourcing its cognitive capacities to machines.
The people will now be recognized on the screens.
To be known again through the artificial means.
“This kind of interplay
is easy to forget
but important to remember
when one becomes engrossed
For a successful pattern recognizer
is the one who has matched
his or her particular data
to an algorithmic technique.”
– claims one of the most recognized studies on pattern recognition ( * ).
/to be recognized for developing the best recognition software on the market/
“The fuzzy set was conceived
as a result of an attempt
to come to grips
with the problem of pattern recognition
the belonging of an object
is a matter of degree,
as is the question of whether or not a group of objects form a cluster.”
To be recognized by an algorithm.
To belong to a class,
For something can only be recognized
when it belongs to a certain category
Therefore, in this world, to be recognized for what you are
is to not be recognized at all.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
image credit: Jourdan Dunn by Sean & Seng
whenever you cross a border,
be it a physical border,
there will always be people
who will position themselves
on that demarcation line.
They will want to look at your papers,
They often have short hair,
they sometimes have tattoos,
they are searching for.
The fact that they choose
means they are sensitive
to whatever it is
and that is not.
However, they are afraid.
Their fear makes them stay
on the inner side of the circle.
They do not want to cross the border.
They’d like to do it, but they can’t.
It’s probably very frustrating.
So they misinterpret the word “security” (free of care) and call themselves such,
when, in fact, these are some of the most troubled people you’d ever meet.
They want to cross the line, but they can’t do it.
So their anger is channeled into
They stand on the inner side of normality
guarding it against (what they call)
Anything that falls out of the pattern
and pulled back into the circle.
so they want others to be afraid.
That’s why the others
to cross the border
that is not theirs.
Perhaps there should be others
who guard abnormality against normality.
Security from the other side.
The agents of otherness
those who are not afraid to cross lines
and who are not afraid of people who cross lines.
Because all this demarcation is any way just a painting.
Or it only exists for those who are protecting the line.
Only evaporates into the air.
A good way to notice normality
is a very rigid pattern of behavior
exaggerated sense of authority.
When any of these behaviors are detected,
the agent of otherness
to protect the other side of the border
from those who are afraid.
This may be done in a way that is obvious or not,
depending on the situation.
But it’s absolutely necessary that this infection of fear
Let them have their circles,
let us have the rest
(including their circle, too).
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity in music is the persistence of repetition to maintain its individual specificity through a slight difference in occurrence. When an analogue synth wave is left to reign on its own it gains consciousness through subtle malfunctions rendering each repetition unique. The amalgamation of these differentiated malfunctions is what produces expressive power of this musical piece. The slight deviations in the curve of the synth sine wave express its polysingularity and, thus, give it analogous self-replicating property that only living creatures can have.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity is when multiple solutions are possible and yet only some are actualized at every moment of time. The same solution can be actualized through various different rules and function. It’s possible to arrive to the same point even if you start from a different place or follow a different route. The traces on ice are all the possibilities that have ever existed. Our movement right now is the intention. The place where we are standing is a statement to the polysingularity of the whole.
Photo by Patrick Shaw, 2011
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
To act accordingly is to act consequently.
To act accordingly is to act correspondingly.
To act accordingly to the environment.
To act accordingly to the situation.
To act accordingly is to follow the heart.
From Latin ad- ‘to’ + cor, cord- ‘heart’.
What does the situation demand?
What is the situation?
To act accordingly to the situation is to respond to the relation between the one who is to act and the situation itself.
The one who is to act has a mission.
The situation itself has a potentiality.
The two merge into unity,
Some of the consequences
respond to the mission
and to the potentialities.
Sometimes we know what to do but the circumstances are not right.
Sometimes the circumstances are right but we don’t know what to do.
Both cases mean that we do not act accordingly.
For to act accordingly is to do what’s right for the circumstances.
A train is coming and you are on the tracks. The circumstances are right to die. You want to live. You need to act accordingly.
A train is coming and you are on the train. The circumstances are right. You want to travel. You act accordingly.
A train is coming and you are on the tracks. The circumstances are right to die. You want to die. You act accordingly.
A train is coming and you are on the train. The circumstances are right. You want to stop. You act accordingly.
Polysingularity of acting accordingly is to find the path.
Polysingularity of acting accordingly is to respond with a single answer to many different questions.
To do what the situation demands, being loyal and dedicated within one’s effort.
To act accordingly is to respond to the bigger picture and to the momentum at the same time.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
for making large-scale changes
(quitting a bad habit, changing a job, repairing software, etc.)
dependent on an old
one wants to replace.
needs to be created.
between one of the parts
and an old component
one wants to replace.
We then gradually reroute
from an old component
to the abstraction layer.
now acts as an interface
between the functioning parts
and the old component.
(one step at a time — pretending that everything is still the same even if it is not)
We then build a new component
that implements the features
required by one of the functioning parts.
We reroute the interaction
from the functioning part
through the abstraction layer
towards the new component.
We gradually phase out
towards the new component
rewriting the abstraction layer,
until we don’t need
Once the abstraction layer
does not need the old component
and only uses the new component
to fulfil the same objectives,
to ensure operation of interdependent parts,
Using an abstraction layer
to allow multiple implementations
to co-exist in a system.
(Fake it till you make it)
Use the notion of one abstraction
to perform the migration
Ensure that the system
builds and runs correctly
so you can continue
to use Continuous Delivery
while you are doing
Look for as many ways
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity of acronyms becomes evident when they are put one next to another. The slight differences in letters and appearances do not obscure the invariance of intention towards simplification and unification, which is more often than not dictated by corporate interests to subjugate polysingularity of a construct to its own commercial interests.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
“An act is sovereign when it realizes itself by simply taking away its own potentiality not to be, letting itself be, giving itself to itself” – Giorgio Agamben
They took away my first country again. Again, because it’s happened many times before.
Sometimes I’ve taken it back. Mainly when I was somewhere at the countryside and almost always when I had my friends or relatives around. Sometimes it came back to me by itself – through the words, images, sounds, and actions committed by the people who were born there, just like me, but who found themselves somewhere else, just like myself.
I am not the only one. Many people have their countries taken away from them on a daily basis. The notorious 1% is shooting those who are not loyal with drones and runs them over with motorcycles, the 100 vampire feudal families are sucking the juices from under the ground, the holy sands are burning while IKEA is building a new shop on top of them, and in the meanwhile Snowden and Navalny are expecting their fate behind the bars.
The present reality that is one’s own becomes somebody else’s.
The question arises: do I need to have a country that’s one’s own ?
Often, especially lately, I’ve found new countries that were mine. Sometimes it happened during the evening when I was coming back home. And also when I was enjoying the silence on my own or sitting on the roof and watching the stars in the sky with my friends or with people I didn’t know.
A country is not only a territory. It’s an aggregate of the images and of the events, which are related to the territory, the language, the people, their actions, and the culture, which can be somehow detached from the rest into a single unified multiplicity.
Sovereignty is self-dependence. The sovereignty of a country is when the unified multiplicity depends on itself.
A question: What is the basis for the unification of that multiplicity? And where is the border between the unification that's one's own and the unification that's somebody else's ?
The borders of a territory define the specificity of the culture. Language affects perception and behavior. The people born and raised in Germany will behave and look differently than the people born and raised in Sudan. Often it is the territory that unifies the detached elements, events, and actions into a county. And then it becomes very easy to take that country away. Just take away the territory or territorialize it.
Some of them don’t understand that territory is only a part of a country. They cling on to it as if it were a resource. They try to protect it. Any infringement of what they consider to be theirs leads to a counterstrike. Some of them call it patriotism. They stand for the self-dependence of that territory, which is unified by their wish to use it as a resource. They act as the animals protecting their habitat. Behind them is the biomass poisoned by ideology and weapons of mass destruction.
To fight on their territory is to accept their rules. To take away their territory is to accept their basis for unification.
On the other side there is us. We came out into the world there but turned out to be here. Here is the present reality of our own. There is the present reality of somebody else. To be in the present reality of somebody else helped us realize the present reality of our own. Some of us stayed over there, but we are kindred spirits and the location is not important. Next to ourselves, we build a reality of our own even if everything that surrounds us is the reality of somebody else. Territory played an important role, but it is not the defining factor.
We have many other ways to be next to each other.
We already found each other.
We are not only the people. “We” are also the images and the shapes that surround me. The rain, the sky, the contours of buildings and trees, the smells, the occasional noises, the sunsets.
We have our own basis for unification, therefore we can have our own sovereignty.
This sovereignty does not depend on the territory. It does not depend on the history, the date and the place of birth. This sovereignty is based on the specificity of individuality. This sovereignty is the multitude of interrelated thoughts, images, and expressions that I believe in and that we believe in.
Our sovereignty is about finding our own context, producing our own self-dependent unified multiplicity.
Our sovereignty reigns over itself.
Our sovereignty is in a constant state of exception within itself and towards the outside.
Our sovereignty finds its self-dependence in a specific kind of dynamics that is polysingular.
What are the principles of that sovereignty?
Territory. The territory where I came out was full of inspiration but it did not define me. Every territory can teach something, everybody has had a different lesson. Russia was about the carnal inside, tenderness and aggression, honesty. France was about the specificity of succession and love. India was about not taking yourself too seriously. England was about living together. Germany was about discipline and order, suspense, self-searching and orgasm. They keep on inspiring despite what happens in them. It’s good that they exist and that they are all different from each other.
The principle of polysingular sovereignty is to shift between the territories and to stay at every one of them long enough and even a little longer. Polysingular sovereignty is a mix of wanderlust and tenacity.
People. We find each other neither through common grounds, nor through the territories. Love is irrational. Frienship is also. The flow is passing through all of us. Serendipity brings us together, we stay a little bit longer, look each other into the eyes, remain together.
Many of the different ones mold into the islands. They are constantly changing, shifting, exchanging, living together, separately, leaving, and coming back again. Everyone is unique, there is no single base for unification. There is only the dynamics of life that makes it possible to be together and separately at the same time. Inclusive exclusivity. Integrative segregation. Polysingularity of communication.
Actions. The way we act defines the narrative. The objective is the intention. Something happens and I react respond. Nothing happens, I make it happen. Today, when they took my country away, where the present reality is that of somebody else’s, I chose to stay in the present reality that is my own. However, it is important that the reality of somebody else made me define that of my own.
Language. Knowing a language defines a picture of the world. Knowing two languages expands it. Решать is not the same thing as to decide. The former is about weaving the narrative, the latter is about cutting off. To decide in English is to make a choice. To decide in Russian is to act accordingly.
Culture. The intricacies of behavior. We perform that what we’ve learned and unlearned during our history. The substance is morphing, the behavior changes. I thought I would never believe the impossible but now everything is different for a while.
Events. That, which makes me change the direction and transforms the context. The real event is the threat to sovereignity. I am ready to stand for the sovereignity, to defend self-sufficiency of the unification that is the present reality of my own. The events lead to actions. The actions towards the edges of one’s sovereignity make it evolve, morph, and become stronger.
The last thing. And the most important, perhaps.
We do not live in an isolated world. The practice of polysingular sovereignity implies the shifting dynamics of one’s own position, trajectory, thought-vectors, circles, communications, and behavioral strategies. In order to do all that – and also – to live and to survive – an infrastructure is needed.
To blindly use the existing ones is to accept sovereignity of somebody else. To go beyond the country borders into the virtual networks is still the same. Communication channels belong to the corporations. The corporations defend their sovereignty. They differ from the countries in that they care less about the ideology and more about the numbers. It’s also a certain kind of ideology: the binary logic subjected to rational artificial intelligence. The logic directed towards the growth and efficiency (somebody needs to pay the rent for the territory ).
To fully refuse is not the option either.
To stand for one’s own sovereignty is to create one’s own infrastructures. Using and merging the already existing ones.
To build the new bridges.
To disassemble the already existing ones.
To misuse the already existing ones.
Infusing arteries with the new substances.
Disfunctionalizing the space, matter and time.
Creating the infrastructures for life support.
Samples from nature: Seasteading (creating sea cities offshore), Vipassana meditation centers (international infrastructure for meditation, donation-based), RosPil (volunteer organization to trace the unlawful and overpriced government tenders with an embedded legal mechanism of their annulation), BitCoin (decentralized international peer-to-peer currency), Tor Network (the alternative anonymous communication network that functions on top of the already existing internet infrastructure), Cyclonopedia (theory disguising itself under layers of fiction), Dau (a film that turned the reality around itself into a film set for several years).
Facebook and Google also used to be examples of the new sovereign structures. However, their expansive totalitarian advance and subordination towards the territories have rendered them status quo.
Contemporary art could also be included if it was not subordinated.
Looking at the present reality from the Flow’s point of view, many things become apparently unimportant. Nevertheless, it’s not often that we find ourselves within the body-mind material, so why not play by its rules?
We have the whole eternity, both before and after. There will be the time and space to explore it. Right now the question is: what’s so specific about the human that separates it from eternity? Humans can fail and win. Humans can feel, enjoy and suffer. Humans can fail and win. The human repeats itself. Humans can be naive and believe. Humans can do a lot of things that eternity doesn’t know of and never will.
We will have lots of time for eternal flow and contemplation. However, we only have that much time for this temporary game on this matter’s terms.
So why not try?
Of course, we can cleanse our bodies from dead-born concepts and turn ourselves into mere vessels for infinity. But the surroundings are contagious. Therefore we have to act like a virus, go sideways, apply hypercamouflage, create our own infrastructures based on the already existing ones, integrate that which is segregated and segregate that which is integrated, practice inclusive exclusivity, deterritorialize thought, change direction, morph our strategies and more importantly in ways that we don’t yet expect.
And the most important thing. Sovereignty does not imply detachment from the present reality. Instead, sovereignty is to attach to the present reality on our own terms.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity manifests itself through a dialogue. Each exchange maintains a certain center of gravity through continuous reiteration of the intention. Often, the intention is just to be polite or to stay within the common cultural or semantic field. When one wants to explore polysingularity of oneself, then the circular motion can be maintained and the momentum gained can be used to subjugate a dialogue to one’s own agenda. When one wants to explore polysingularity of a dialogue, one can pretend that nothing but the statements that are exchanged exists and so allow the differences of each iteration be in relation to each other as much as possible.
Me: How are you?
Me: I’m fine, thanks, and you?
Me: Me too, thanks.
Me: So, what’s going on?
Me: Not so much, and you?
Me: Well, same as always.
Me: No, I was just thinking…
Me: Well, you know…
Me: What are we talking about?
Me: Do you know who’s reading this?
Me: No, not really.
Me: But someone is reading this, right?
Me: Probably yes. Sometime. Somewhere.
Me: And so is there anything that we want to say to that person?
Me: I don’t really know. Well, yes.
Me: We want to say that there’s a certain circular motion in a dialogue…
Me: Yes… and as we go along we maintain a certain continuity.
Me: It’s not always the same. Sometimes it changes.
Me: Yes, but most of the time it stays the same.
Me: Probably, but it depends how long you stay there.
Me: What do you mean?
Me: Well, if you speak about the same thing long enough, it will take you somewhere else.
Me: Easy. Look, you are saying that it always stays the same.
Me: And so do I. Everything always stays the same.
Me: Fuck, I don’t know where I am anymore.
Me: Me too, I forgot who was saying what.
Me: It’s because when I write I can’t see who wrote what first.
Me: That’s the thing…
Me: So there’s always this circular motion…
Me: But each time it changes a little bit…
Me: Even though it looks like it’s always the same.
Me: And so gradually it progresses towards replicating itself through repetitive iterations.
Me: Yes, and that’s how it gradually constructs its polysingularity.
Me: The intention is there where a small difference between the differences is maintained.
Me: True, but that difference in order to be true to the intention should gradually escalate.
Me: Yes, so that one moment the intention explodes.
Me: And it becomes something else.
Me: We want to say that there’s a certain circular motion in a dialogue…
Me: Yes… and as we go along we maintain a certain continuity.
Me: It’s not always the same. Sometimes it changes.
Me: I think that’s all I wanted to say for now.
Me: Or at least that’s all I can say.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A denim shirt and a pair of cotton panties can come together in a lot of different ways. It depends on the person who is wearing them, the situation, the perspective we take, the place, the moment, the mood, the way they are combined. Polysingularity of denim shirt and cotton panties manifests itself through the appearance they took despite all the possibilities they had. This restricted expression produces the intention without necessarily stating it. Whatever way you look at the girl, however else she wears the shirt and the panties, we now know how we feel already. Like that. And that’s polysingularity of American Apparel.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
that those days are gone
And the rooms are brighter
that we couldn’t see before
And the air is fuller
that we couldn’t hear before
this newly found emptiness
of this newly found air.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Management models are often represented by circular diagrams. The iterations scheme out continuous change through repetitive actions (evaluation, assessment, design, implementation, meta-management) that involve various agents (people, tools, processes). However, each iteration should not only be different, it should be better than the previous one. This how polysingularity of continuous improvement works: it subjugates replication to some external criteria, which evaluate its success or failure. Such subjugation stifles polysingular potential of participating entities, because the intention emerges from their belonging to something, rather than sharing the space-in-between with something.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
How to read an intention instead of reading a text? When I read, my imagination meets the necessity of the written word to unfold in a linear way. What if I want to encounter the imagination of the one who wrote the text? It is rarely that we have the complete narrative line as we write. Rather, a text is born from numerous re-adjustments that nevertheless retain certain centers of gravity, which express our thought. How to access these attractor states and not the straight lines that the text is reduced to? Our colleagues from Nodus Labs developed an algorithm of visualizing a text as a network. The words are the nodes and their co-occurrences are the relations between them. We are presented with the phase space of the text, the multiplicity of traces that words could leave in our imagination. We can then start reading between the lines, following the emotive intertwined threads of occurrences instead of straight lines. The text opens up in front of us in its polysingularity and becomes poetry.
Try it yourself, click into the phase space:
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Alice in Wonderland is a journey through irrationality of logic. However, within a text polysingularity is reduced and restricted by the rules of grammar, syntaxis, and linearity of a written word. Instead, we applied a special method of disassembling the text into the clusters of meaning circulation, which are connected to each other through network. This way the text can be read in many different ways, however, the inherent meaning underlying the narrative will be more relevant to the contingency of the reader’s choices.
You can try it yourself using the interface below:
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
This article was written as a response to terrorist attacks in Paris in 2015 and in Brussels in 2016.
Terror works when it instills fear (from Latin terrere ‘frighten’). When something works there will be more and more of it (positive reinforcement feedback loops are everywhere).
Therefore, the reaction to terror is its fuel and its medium of proliferation.
The chance of getting killed in a terrorist attack in Europe today is 70 times lower than dying in a traffic accident, 100 times lower than contracting HIV, 5 times lower than dying in a fire, and almost the same as getting struck by a lightning.
In this context, a terrorist attack is an atrocious, horrible, pointless
with a very low probability rate (that of a lightning).
This probability rate will increase if the reaction ensues and even more so if this reaction is that of closing borders, shock, anger, increased xenophobia, and reduced civil liberty under the pretext of “security”.
That includes the mass-media social network hysteria (“I’m safe”, “WTF”, “I want to scream”), hypocritical references to the importance of human life (how many people are killed outside of the EU on a daily basis without any reaction?), and sudden calls to unite against the external enemy under the star-circle of Europe, stronger borders, and increased surveillance that makes the streets look like airport security zones.
There are other fights to fight (in every sense) and if one is to fight against terror, the first step is not to make the news of the day.
Treating it as a lightning strike. Pointless accident. Terror should be as good in instilling fear and hatred as lightning.
To be secure, is from Latin securus, to be ‘free from care’.
And there one may choose to make further steps and to address other conditions that make terror possible, but the scope of this action surely lies outside of the realm of writing and reading.
Photo credit: Craigs Higgins, “Sedona Stark Tree in Storm”
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
source: Tumblr (author unknown)
If there is something inside the innocence that wants to be corrupted, it is the total lack of resistance towards the eyes of the beholder. As soon as it is corrupted, it is not innocent anymore.
“I surrender”, “I give myself up to you”. Fully, univocally, completely. But only this one time.
Both innocence and corruption are gone; the tension is dissolved. So it is the promise and not the final result that matters, just like in many other things where expectation plays a more important role than an actual process. To corrupt is to spoil.
Corruption lost within innocence.
An individual can also be corrupted, but why would we even use this term? Is it to emphasize that this in~dividual could have been a good person? Corrupt by default Corruption as practice.
source: Tumblr (author unknown)
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
between whatever it is
and that, which is not.
and that, which is not.
and that, which is not.
to be on the side of security
is to be as close as possible
but to never enter
into that other realm
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
To inspect an object
which properties it has
To retrieve the properties
there is to say
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The program below was created using a combination of rhythms that have the highest dynamic variability as opposed to standard 4/4 replications. For the maximum effect it is recommended to use a good quality sound system with a good low-frequency response range.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The tracks in this mix follow the 22 Major Arcanas of Tarot. Click on the track to read the description for each card.
XI. Strength | TWWTH – Naomi XX
XVII. Star | Sau Poler – Reflections
XVIII. Moon | Vladislav Delay – Henki + Stefan Faerber x Dmitry Paranyushkin – Talmulde [120330_ds6]
XVIIII. Sun | Clap! Clap! – Tambacounda’s Black Magic
XX. Judgement | Huerco S – zhiid
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
John McAfee, the founder of the famous anti-virus software company, is a true venture fiction entrepreneur. After leaving his company cashing in $250 Mln in the 90s, he took on the path of adventures. His first venture was a yoga ashram in Colorado where he was busy enjoying the everyday pleasures of life, including his new 19 year old girlfriend. He then invented a sport called aerotrekking, which involved putting on a special suit with engines in the wings, flying low at high speed over the desert. After his nephew and a passenger died in an accident, he moved to Belize and started a cafe and a ferry service there. He then met a Harvard biologist and together they set up a lab in the jungle where they were searching for the new medicine that was supposed to replace antibiotics. They were not able to fulfil their original intention, but they did start marketing a jungle plant extract that they claimed boosted female libido. The company didn’t work and McAfee ended up buying a huge house and getting involved with the local mafia bosses in order to protect himself against a local criminal. His latest venture was “observational yoga”, which offered a special practice of watching other people doing yoga. McAfee claimed that this new enterprise was very successful in Belize.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Venture fiction is a way of practicing polysingularity.
When we talk about the ability to be in different realms simultaneously in the way that’s loyal and 100% committed to each and every one of them, we encounter the limitations of time and space.
This is a risk and that’s where the venture comes in: a high-risk activity that promises high gain (but also, the loss). Once we deal with the risky part and decide to move on, the next step is to deal with the limitations. That’s the fiction * part. We have to transcend the limitations of time and space through our imagination. We need to create fictional ventures that inscribe imagination into everyday reality through non-existent businesses, products, shops, consultancies, social networks, software tools, and various other processes and things.
Do you want to start a new church? Do you want to write software that will change the way we think? Do you want to sell self-replicating chairs, random-angle photo cameras, listen to alien hypnogogic pop, live in a house that derives its energy from your own metabolism? Then do it: create whatever you can, imagine whatever you cannot create, put it together, and you’ve got venture fiction. Put it out there, let other people think that it’s real, invite them to participate, see your ideas become reality. Venture fiction is about polysingularity in its most pragmatic sense: how to build the kind of reality that has multiple solutions that insist on their uniqueness while being aware of each other’s existence.
* What we normally refer to as “reality” is a constellation of high-frequency synchronizations. There are also other synchronizations that occur at the other frequency ranges and the reason they are not part of reality is that we are not tuned into them collectively. So we can think of fiction as a practice of establishing a certain synchronized constellation, which operates at a different frequency but the one that can still be tuned into. Think of it as radio waves. Reality is within the 90 – 107 FM range. Fiction is within the 103 – 115 Fm range. The 103 – 107 FM intersection is there to link fiction to reality. Then, once the amplitude of oscillations within the fiction range is sufficiently strong, we can start bending reality and bring it into phase sync with the fictional oscillations.
(Elon Musk talks about his reasons to create Tesla and SpaceX in this interview. He says that one of his main goals was to make other companies work towards innovation in the area of green sustainable energy, because otherwise the whole earth, humanity and consciousness itself will become extinct)
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The tower has a centre V shape insulator configuration
which is held within a diamond shape.
This increases the apparent height of the tower
but reduces the apparent width of the tower.
The outer insulators are held by two diamond shape cross arms
which extend from either side of the tower.
The earthwires are attached at the top
using smaller cross arms
supports two separate circuits.
The conductors on the double circuit tower
are connected to the lattice structure
by horizontal lattice cross arms
and by vertical insulators.
The earthwire is connected
at the top of the structure.
The energy flows circulate
along fortified aluminium wires
supported by folded sheets of steel.
charges on a power line
charges in the body
move to its surface
of this electric force.
to flow to the surfaces
on the upper part
Since the charge on power lines
alternates from positive to negative
many times each second,
on the body surface
on the upper part of the body
flow into the lower part of the body
induce currents in the body
as well as charges on its surface.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
In this world, drugs are like advertisements. Things can get complicated. What’s promised may be perceived to be real and the other way round.
Drugs advertise. They direct attention to something. We are told what’s possible. It turns out that everything is. We know that already. It’s good to have a reminder.
However, the “What” (is possible) is never followed by the “How”, because the Logo appears and the 30 seconds are already over.
The system of coordinates is shifted towards and within. What used to be there then becomes here and now. Trajectories deviate from their prescribed pathways. The observer changes the point of view without changing the position. The new information reveals new relationships.
Turn off advertising before it ends.
Aquascutum Spring/Summer 2009 collection. We see models who are kissing. They feel good. At the very least they like each other, but maybe it’s love. Priming and mirror neurons ( source ) are doing their job and all those sensations are associated with the Style and the Word of Aquascutum.
As the text evolves further it also becomes evident that the sensations are gradually receding, the magic of the image is dissipating, the letters form the words and the words form the sentences. We’ve seen What was possible, but we don’t know How to make it happen.
A single dose of methylamphetamine ( source ) was distributed to each of the eighteen models. Sixty minutes passed by. Serotonine is spreading along the pathways of cerebral cortex. Everything that is near becomes the source of sensorial pleasure. The cyborgs are now alive. The fingers are crawling, the lips are swelling, the eyelashes are rustling. They are attracted towards each other led by their heterosexual predispositions.The boys reach towards the girls. The girls reach towards the boys. They want to feel the warmth of the Body. The boundaries are getting blurred. The heart starts to beat faster. The breath is warm. Penetration is not required. Social norms are temporarily suspended. A dichotomy of perception becomes more apparent than usual.
Everything smooth becomes more acute and pronounced. Sensations are rubbing against the sharp corners of perception, they feel both pain and pleasure at the same time.
Every surface – whether it belongs to a physical object or to abstract thought – becomes the source of aesthetic pleasure. Depth is neither required nor necessary. Observing reality we launch into the cosmos. The tentacles of previously disjointed elements are weaving into each other’s flesh. The new combinations create new meanings. The new meanings fill in reality. The sharpness of the newly found perception is attracting the particles toward each other. Serotonin level decreases and the nourishing nectar stops flowing through the newly created structures. The surfaces continue to rub against each other, but there’s nothing left in between. The materials are worn out, the elements break into pieces, everything is falling apart, and wants to cry, but the liquid is already gone. And still, even though everything’s lost, the butterflies are touching the insides and it’s beautiful.
Repeat everything above without MDMA.
What happened? The human brain has distinct segregated clusters of neurons. Each cluster responsible for a certain experience. The supra network of high-frequency neuronal pathways connects those regions together and glues them into a unified experience. Let’s say that those clusters are like the cities and the high-frequency supra network pathways are like the motorways connecting those cities together. The substance cited above temporarily increases the carrying capacity of the motorways so that the cities can exchange information and feel that they belong to the same country. The feeling of unification is elating but it comes at a cost. The motorways wear out faster, there are some accidents along the way, the arteries get clogged, and after the substance is gone the cities are separated again and it becomes even harder to travel between them. At least now they know of each other’s existence, so what’s left is to leave the memory of the joyful encounter behind and start wandering again.
In the meanwhile, we move on further and into.
If MDMA is connecting the previously segregated regions, then THC does exactly the opposite. A city that functions as one unity may get homogenous at times. After the substance is administered, distinct areas emerge. Mitte is different from Kreuzberg and even more different from Lichtenberg. It’s also quite far to travel, especially towards the evening, especially if we’re in Berlin.
It’s already 11pm. I leave towards the outside, it’s warm and quiet. The air smells like fresh lime trees and flowers, I feel good. The regular beat is reaching my ears from every direction, it’s always like that here. I walk towards the park and enter the forest. Hiding faces, a hand reaches out holding a pack of something that contains tetrahydrocannabinol. I give back a blue piece of paper and continue my movement. There’s a bench under a street light. I sit on the bench holding a rolling paper and the contents within.
The fire reaches the very end and it’s on. The vaporized particles enter the body. The neurons are randomly rewired and now I become the observer of my own feelings and thoughts. Removing myself from the necessity to accept everything as it makes my perception much lighter. It’s possible to explore under the surface or slide across the facets of reality reflecting itself and taking nothing really seriously. The multitude is deconstructed into the smallest parts. What used to be heard is now seen. What used to be seen is now felt. The meanings and patterns switch. The clusters gain more detail and precision, the distances between the clusters increase. It’s possible to keep on watching the stars or to continue the journey of self-reflection. It’s possible to get stuck or make love and smoke more later on.
Repeat everything that's described above everyday at any moment of time. With or without. Better without so that there's no dependence on.
The weekend arrives. The black plastic cards are rhythmically hitting against the reflective surfaces, cutting the white powder into the fine stardust. The paper is rolled, the nostrils are agitated. The substance travels towards the inside, the dopamine level rises, the satisfaction arrives. Even if nothing really happened yet. It’s all good anyway. Excellent, one should say. Nothing needs to be changed, everything should just continue. There are no barriers, there are only possibilities. There is also determination. There is everything that’s needed to realize the determination. The crispy reality is shimmering with the light and sound. The tension knows no limits. The dopamine leaves, some more is needed, the worn-out reality is casting away its shadow…
determination, just like when every particle wants it.
Lysergic acid diethylamide affects a large number of the G protein-coupled receptors, including all dopamine receptor subtypes, and all adrenoreceptor subtypes, as well as many others. Most serotonergic psychedelics are not dopaminergic. LSD’s agonism of D2 receptors contributes to its psychoactive effects. LSD binds to most serotonin receptor subtypes except for 5-HT3 and 5-HT4. However, most of these receptors are affected at too low affinity to be sufficiently activated by the brain concentration of approximately 10–20 nM. In humans, recreational doses of LSD can affect 5-HT1A (Ki=1.1nM), 5-HT2A (Ki=2.9nM), 5-HT2B (Ki=4.9nM), 5-HT2C (Ki=23nM), 5-HT5A (Ki=9nM [in cloned rat tissues]), and 5-HT6 receptors (Ki=2.3nM).
The psychedelic effects of LSD are attributed to its strong partial agonist effects at 5-HT2A receptors as specific 5-HT2A agonists are psychedelics and largely 5-HT2A specific antagonists block the psychedelic activity of LSD. LSD exhibits functional selectivity at the 5-HT2A and 5HT2C receptors in that it activates the signal transduction enzyme phospholipase A2 instead of activating the enzyme phospholipase C as the endogenous ligand serotonin does. Exactly how LSD produces its effects is unknown, but it is thought that it works by increasing glutamate release in the cerebral cortex and therefore excitation in this area, specifically in layers IV and V. LSD, like many other drugs, has been shown to activate dopamine- and cAMP-regulated neuronal phosphoprotein-related pathways.
Effectively this means that LSD replaces the substances responsible for attention and perception, juxtaposing the neurons against themselves, offering a point of view within the point of view, revealing the multitude to itself, short-circuiting faraway regions, and segregating the clustered ones.
Load the universe into the cannon. Aim at the brain. Fire.
Dimethyltryptamine. DMT. The substance that the brain releases into itself before its death or maybe during the dream. Time is what prevents everything from happening at once. If it contracts, everything happens and happens at once and all at the same time. The black holes pass by, along with the surfaces, memories, thoughts, and ideas… But we are gliding back towards ourselves and into the universe. Life is celebrating itself in every cell and in every breath. The neurons link previously separated flickers into the unified whole, and the world as we know it emerges. Perception perceives itself all at once, there’s nothing left except for the spreading flow. Every particle is imploding and exploding with pleasure and with intensity. Everything changes disappears, reemerges, and disappears again in order to reemerge as something different.
The thread of time links all of this together and produces the illusion of life. Death, then, is when all of this happens at once and everywhere at the same time. “This world is mine”, but only because this very world is so different from the rest that it cannot be somebody else’s. The never-ending explosion reveals itself once again and the convulsing orgasmic Body channels its repercussions.
Becoming a vessel and channeling the flow. Synchronized with the entity.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The report below was written in response to Changing the Picture – the conference on storytelling and technology that took place in Berlin’s Babelsberg studios in November 2016.
Everyone lives in the stories they’re telling themselves. Many of those stories are imagined and told by somebody else and that’s where the one who speaks can have an agency and direct influence on others.
This interaction is never completely direct. There’s always an interface or a medium: language, screen, body… The interface has an effect on the structure and content of the narrative that is transmitted through it. Contemporary storytelling heavily relies on technology and one of the most influential mediums today is the moving image. So in order to know the kind of stories that will be shaping the future, one needs to look at technology and the direction it is evolving in.
The current state of things in storytelling is affected by the three main trends.
First, there’s a trend towards minification, fragmentation, and – as a result – the emergence of reiterative narratives. Books are dispersed into short stories. Stories are dispersed into tweets. Series are preferred to feature films. YouTube videos get more audience than series. Monetization is still lagging behind, but it is only a matter of time before minified content becomes more profitable. Netflix is a good example, but even a better example is the computer games industry – short interactive moments that reiterate the same narrative are much more profitable than long feature films.
Many creative production processes today fully assume the paradigm of agile development, which has been dominating the software world for more than a decade already: constant delivery through short-term iteration cycles. This, in turn, influences the way narratives are constructed today. Linear stories are left aside and what comes at the forefront are cyclical narrative patterns, which repeat themselves from iteration to iteration, reinforcing the main structural elements of the narrative that inscribes itself into content.
Content distribution patterns are also changing. In the world where attention span is somewhere between 1 and 2 minutes, everything has to be short and concise if it wants to exist in a way that is economically viable. Content producers today compete for short moments of attention. And their task is not only to retain, but also to bring back distracted viewers. That’s why serial content is so important but it is even more important that the content is made in such a way that it can connect to external narrative threads, so that it makes it easy for the audience to leave and to come back again.
Consumers are subjected to bits and pieces of content from which they can weave their own narratives aided by recommendation algorithms (e.g. YouTube’s similar videos). The illusion of choice gives a sense of agency to the one who is receiving the story. The algorithms are not made to transmit certain meanings, communicate ideas, or to be coherent. They are designed to maximize viewing time and retention. Therefore something that is “catchy” from the very first second has much more chances to survive. And if that “catchy” transmits the logic of iterative narrative that is to follow, again and again, then it becomes successful because it contains its essence within the smallest parts of itself.
Secondly, there’s a trend towards introducing metadata into video content. This makes it not only easier to collaborate but it also offers new possibilities for interactive storytelling. Ian Forrester, Senior Firestarter Producer at the BBC, is developing a system called “ Visual Perceptive Media ” which enables filmmakers to assemble different parallel narratives in real time, based on the viewers’ profiles. John C. Roselund and Kvae Stein ( drylab, Oslo) used metadata extensively when working on King’s Choice feature film, enabling real-time collaboration across different countries and teams as well as aggregating of material on film set. When metadata across different platforms is standardised, it opens immense possibilities for building the projects based on linking different narratives together (e.g. linking one series to another based on the content complimentarity rather than similarity-based recommender algorithms).
Finally, there’s a trend towards realistic simulation. Resolution is one of the main topics at tech conferences today. Human eye’s resolution is about 60 pixels per degree, therefore, for a field of view that is 120 degrees, it is enough to have 8K resolution for it to be indistinguishable from the “real world”. The new models of VR headsets already have 4K resolution coming up to the market, so it’s going to take only a couple of years until we will be seeing the images that will be indistinguishable from reality. Ambisonic sound systems will take care of reaplistic representation of auditory input in space. Haptic suits as well as movement and head tracking systems will ensure that there’s a link between the physical movement and simulated realities. The last step is to finally start embedding the virtual into the real and Google is already on it with its several billion investment into the mixed reality startup Magic Leap. Once this future inscribes itself into the real, space and time will not exist in the same way as before and teleportation will become part of everyday life. This is already happening and many companies, such as ILMxLab, co-founded by Michael Koperwas, are already experimenting with Mixed Reality implementations of virtual narrative into the real world.
What is the effect that it has on the storytelling? The desire to recreate a world has a lot to do with control. To simulate is to repeat something that exists already, but on the new terms. It is no surprise that porn industry is the one that is driving the VR. Transcending the limitations of space and time, of one’s own physical body, multiplying ourselves into different realms, existing here and there and everywhere else. Instant gratification, total escape.
But what will we do once this happens? Most of the videos produced for VR today seem to be simply content with their own existence: tech demos, showing what’s possible but not really taking it yet anywhere into any specific direction. It’s like we’ve finally made it to Mars, but there was not any real plan of what to do once we get there. So we are standing, watching silently, observing the surface of the planet, wondering what to do next. Perhaps, it is also a moment in time that demands us to stop and observe before moving to the next stage.
The medium is still full of limitations. Resolution is not yet at the level that is indistinguishable from reality. Movement is not yet fully possible. Sound could be better. Haptic feedback could be better. However, what would happen if we accept all these limitations? What would happen if we make something about the quest towards the realistic simulation itself? Right now it’s the special moment in the story of simulation itself. The protagonist is immobile and cannot move (it is still very expensive to produce realistic video content that integrates full body movement). Only the head can turn. Resolution is not yet fully realistic: the image is pixelated. The environment is immersive, but what we are immersed in is the story of an attempt to make something realistic that falls short of its own ambition because of the technological limitations. So the honest story to tell at the moment is the story of trying and witnessing, waiting and trying again, reiterating, making small steps at a time, waiting again, tasting pixelated transmissions from the future that is about to come, getting seduced into nothingness, letting the mind run ahead of the body, crashing against the impossibility only to try again and again.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Dedicated to non-equilibrium stability of asynchronous oscillations.
Every track is a carefully selected sonic experience
through out of phase
things don’t have to be in sync
in order to be together.
creates very stable spatiotemporal structures.
(your gait vs your hands swaying vs your heartbeat vs your breathing),
seasonal changes vs moon cycles (today is full moon, by the way!),
But sometimes actions speak better than words.
get the full experience.
Labour Division (Original Mandate) | Forward Strategy Group
Strange Attractor | Silent Servant
Out of Time | Shifted
Disinformation (Developer Remix) | Oscar Mulero
You (RRose Mix) | Mosca
Download on Soundcloud, also available on Mixcloud
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Army is a good example of the social structure where polysingularity of an individual is sacrificed for polysingularity of the group. Uniform, strict regulations, formal and informal codes of behaviour and embodiment ensure that the solutions that are available to each individual are subordinate to those of the army.
Photo “Taiwan Army Day Parade” by Howard Sochurek, 1951
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The program below is a synopsis of Divinatorium project to create an abstract divinatory system. This system is utilized to create self-contained narrative structures and to provide divinatory advice. The project is developed as a collaboration between Dmitry Paranyushkin and Colin Johnco with the help of polysingularity network tool InfraNodus and is realized as a functional deck of cards, an app ( divinatorium.com ), a book, an ongoing practice, and a live presentation.
Divination is defined as a search for knowledge using supernatural means. The notion itself is related to the “divine”, something that is “of God”.
Every divinatory system is an effective and self-sufficient story-telling device. It consists of a set of symbols (Tarot cards, astrological signs, I Ching patterns). Every symbol makes sense, but the overall meaning emerges when those symbols are put in relation to one another.
Relations between the symbols are organized in a very specific way. First, there is the chronological connection (one symbol is followed by another). Then there are also connections between the symbols interlinking the different parts of the narrative structure (e.g. the very beginning to the very end).
If the emerging relational structure of divinational narrative is represented as a network, it has a helix-like shape similar to the shape of a DNA molecule. This may be the “divine” link: using the basic organizational principle of life to produce life-changing narrative structures.
Some excerpts from the 1st edition of the two books (2014) are available below. The full up-to-date versions, as well as the cards kit and a graph of interconnections that can be used to create your own narratives based on this principle are available through the Special Agency. You can also try the online version on www.divinatorium.com
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
There is a particular moment
that it is a dream.
“What a superb rendering of reality!”
Every shape, every color, every constellation – all this is a product of imagination.
After the initial appreciation
(and somehow it always does)
what is to be done?
What can one do
The dream is no longer a dream
when grasped by the reason.
It gradually fades away,
Until one wakes up.
Please, take your time to carefully study the picture above.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The transcript below is the summary of the introductory section on Embodied Network Dynamics offered by Nodus Labs / Special Agency as an online course or a 2-hour long workshop session.
Polysingularity is a practice of soma~cognitive / body~mind reconfiguration.
The main intention of the practice is to explore altered states of consciousness by way of perceptual modulation through mediated experiences.
In other words, shifting through body~mind states using the natural means immediately available.
Apart from the obvious fact that with this approach one never gets bored, there are many more aspects to the practice.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Any text can be represented as a network where words are the nodes and their co-occurrences are the connections between them. The resulting structure conflates time, making the text happen at once, revealing the pathways and traces it makes to inscribe itself into the real. The structure of the text merges with the content to communicate the distances and the gaps in-between.
The images presented below are the translations of texts into network graphs made using the methodology and the tool that I developed as part of my research in polysingularity of text and meaning.
You can read more about this work and the process on Behance.
If you would like to get an alu-dibond print of one of the text above or any other text that somehow resonates, please, contact me via my personal e-mail. You can also use this approach to construct your own text network images using the tool I’ve developed: InfraNodus.Com.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
For stronger soma~cognitive effect it is recommended to find the time (quarter of an hour) and space (silence) to give full sensory attention to the information presented below.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
From the eyes of the purple coat orange grocery store bag woman comes a very thin channel that reaches all the way out to distant shuddering waterfallmist expanses. She’s looking far off into this place. It’s nothing special. The eyes of every living being look there. The firm knowledge of that fact creates a firmness in the woman’s gaze. If she looked at you she would look right through you, but tenderly. She’s walking with a little girl. They walk slowly past the grey slush and No Parking sign. Other people are walking past them quickly. The rumble of the train on the bridge is spurring the other people on. The approaching evening is spurring the other people on. The other people are spurring each other on. Now the little girl looks up at the woman. The little girl looks straight into the mountainous poem in the woman’s eyes that no one sees (I, too, can only guess at its presence). The woman is a little bit embarrassed at being seen so innocently in the middle of her life, but she smiles. She smiles in a way that does not at all involve her face. It’s nothing special. There’s nothing special about the universal connection. It’s universal. Now the little girl’s face is asking a question. The answer is yes. Despite the whole filthy landslide of human progress, it is. This is their secret.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Everybody is special and everyone is an agent.
Every human being is special
even if just because they are unlike anyone else –
Every human being acts in the world –
So even if you don’t yet know it,
you are a Special Agent
you are a part of a Special Agency.
There are at least as many Special Agencies around the world as there are people,
but there can be even more.
Special Agency is an open source way of thinking,
a certain methodology of proceeding
beyond the limits imposed by
It is a way of finding oneself
to fully express itself
acts within the frame,
which gain their own frequency, rhythmicality, physicality, emotional hues, and variable dynamics.
In that Special Agent channels
the very unique thing
that is only him/her/its and nobody else’s –
the natural lifeflow that was mysteriously obfuscated by one’s personality.
It’s the remainings and artefacts of those obfuscations
which are of interest to a Special Agent,
as they are forming the building blocks
within the physical matter –
the retina of the one who’s reading,
the neuronal signal of the one who’s writing,
the tremble within the air produced
by somebody who speaks,
sensations of somebody who touches.
This description in itself
transformed into something else
The link above is a version tracking system normally used in programming. It keeps track of the changes submitted during the collaborative process of writing software. One can “fork” (create a copy branch) of this text and make their own “special” version of it (this case). One can submit a “push” request, which means they’re proposing their changes to the first branch and it may or may not incorporate them.
Whatever the outcome, those branches can develop in parallel, maintaining their specificity and yet able to interact and inspire each other.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
of this long molecule
What you are about to see
is DNA’s most extraordinary secret;
how a simple code is
turned into flesh and blood.
You are watching this transcription process in real time.
It’s happening right now in almost every cell in your body.
Visualization of DNA replication is made by Drew Berry.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
“What is the problem your software is solving?”
Usually, if you cannot answer this question, you are expected to stop doing whatever it is you are doing and reconsider. After all, we live in a world of immediate gratification. If you cannot resolve a real and existing need then you do not deserve the resources or the attention. There are too many others waiting in line to do their 30-second elevator pitch to the venture capitalists, so, please, move over, and give space to what’s really needed!
However, what if we stop here for a second? Why do the things we create have to only solve problems? Do musical instruments solve problems? What about the great works of literature? Or the beautiful pieces of art? If anything, they create problems and by creating those problems they shift our imagination and culture further, helping us to evolve as human beings. The software can also be created this way.
To only write software that solves problems is to remove the artistic potential of the technology we create.
Solving a problem is patching the world that already exists. Creating new problems is generating the seeds for new worlds to emerge.
To relegate software to the practical realm only is to miss out on the immense resources that have become available to us with the technological advance.
We need the software that works like art. The software that poses new problems. The software that makes us fantasize and think in a totally different way. The software that blows our mind and stimulates us, so we come out of our comfort zone and learn something new, get a new perspective, try something completely unexpected…
We need more software where the notion of “interesting” is more important than the notion of “useful”.
Unfortunately, there are not too many examples of this kind of software. (If you know any, please, post them in the comments below.) The world is too immersed in its problems, desires, and needs that have to be quantified, realized, and, ultimately, eliminated (only to give space to the new ones).
Part of the problem is the quantification of value in terms of attention and money that something gets. People are ready to pay for the things that have an immediate effect. That’s why they prefer to take a magical pill instead of having regular physical practice. Our monkey brains are wired to satisfy short-term desires, and that’s where the money and resources flow.
In order to change this we need to change our notion of value. Once the basic needs are taken care of, what else do we need? Do we really need the software that finds the nearest pet food store? Or do we prefer to make a little effort and spend the time on learning a tool that can make us see things in a different way? This takes a different human operating system so that we can rewire ourselves.
Computer games are almost a step in this direction, but not really. They are not useful, but they also rarely have an agenda apart from retaining the user for the longest time possible using the various addiction-based pathways embedded in the fabric of the game.
“Not useful” is not the same as “useless”. When something is not useful it can still have a use, but maybe this use is not something immediately seen and maybe it’s something that takes time and effort to explore. Just like when we’re learning a musical instrument. Playing the piano can be so many things. For some people it’s about expressing themselves, for some others it’s entertainment; it may also have no conscious reason at all, but just feel good in some strange way that is unlike anything else…
We need more software that is not useful, that does not solve problems and that is more like the works of art or the musical instruments. The software that takes time to learn and to understand. The software that can be used in many different ways and especially in the ways it was not designed to.
We need to be able to play our tools and not merely use them.
This way we will be able to harness the power of technology to not only solve our scanty little problems but to evolve as species, fusing our inspiration and creativity with technical progress in a truly artful and creative manner.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Image credit: Radioactive control by Luzinterruptus
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A state of war is a state of exception, which pushes one to take a position:
to start acting and change the world,
to be afraid and stay immobile,
to pretend like nothing is going on,
to talk about biased media coverage of that war,
to actively pursue peaceful resolution of the situation.
Or one may refuse a war that is not theirs.
And that means acting outside of the imposed context (of war),
which means not taking any position prescribed by the state of exception
but, rather, making a step outside of that state and moving sideways.
Making a step that would be exceptional in relation to the state of exception itself.
Everyone is automatically implicated in the state of war if they share what the war is about.
Usually, it’s territory, ideology, or resources.
(That’s why people in Europe know about the bombings in Paris and know less about the bombings in Lebanon.)
War attempts to make a division based on a very simple question:
– “Are you ready to die for it?”
People who fight wars drag everyone in their proximity towards that simplistic binary yes/no take-a-side mentality. Where the stake is their life itself.
They care for their territory, ideology, and resources so badly that they are ready to die for it.
Even worse, they are finding themselves within a self-reinforcing loop of violence losing connection to the original cause. War then just becomes about killing or getting killed. No matter what for anymore.
To stop the war is to take a side. Wars have never been stopped by “neutrality”.
This is why “peace” at its core (in this context, at least) is about death anyway.
But why should somebody want to die for something?
What if one simply wants to live
(for anything, for nothing)
What if the only thing one is ready to put their life for is life itself?
In that case, the only plausible response to the simplistic binary trap (yes/no, war/peace, kill/get killed) is to simply walk around it:
– “What is the model of the gun you’re pointing at me?”
– “I’m sorry, but I’m so stressed that I’m going to have an epileptic fit right now and I’m afraid I can’t think properly to be able to answer your question…”
– اللہ کے نام کے ساتھ جو بے انتہا رحم کرنے والا، بِن مانگے دینے والا (اور) بار بار رحم کرنے
It’s not about taking no sides.
It’s about taking the side outside of the limited range of options proposed by the state of war.
Refusing the binary traps, refusing the fear, and acting from one’s own dynamic position of life itself.
This requires practice. Not the practice of fighting back, not the practice of praying, not the practice of sharing Facebook posts, not the practice of closing down, not the practice of grief, not the practice of escapism, or defeatism. But the practice of opening up new worlds and new possibilities in extreme circumstances where there is no time to think. Developing intuition. Coming into a direct dynamic relationship with whatever it is that is outside in order to survive and to develop. Finding points of contact in order to redirect the flow. Not banging against the wall, crying in front of it, or pretending like it’s not there. Rather, changing direction. Even better – together. Adaptation.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The more something lacks
the more it is needed.
The absence produces desire.
The presence precedes the absence.
Only 0 days 17 hours 14 minutes 29 seconds left
Otherwise it will be too late.
Only today and only tomorrow.
Touch me and we will never talk again.
The waves in the low-frequency spectrum
give space and time to
The EQ spectrum has been extended,
however whatever it was that used to take up
most of the space
There is now an expectation
for the beat and the bass to come back.
After a moment of hesitation,
they return to our mutual satisfaction.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
through the light from the mountains
and a breeze from the muses
enchant all but he who
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
image from the Erosion Series by Tamsin van Essen
In this world, there are things that inhabitants do on a regular basis:
be it routine actions or practice.
Every time they act they can ask themselves:
“What do I legitimize with what I’m doing?”
Example 1. When you’re reading this text from the screen of your iPhone or any other device you are legitimizing several things and processes: the fact that information is transmitted to you over the internet, using the infrastructure of several companies, which you are supporting while using their services; the process of extracting the elements, which the device is made of; the process of knowledge transmission; the device itself as a source of information or entertainment; the faculty of English language to communicate certain things in a way that produces meaning.
The second question is:
“What do I cultivate with what I am doing?”
Example 2. When you’re washing dishes you cultivate your ability to clean dirty stuff, you are also cultivating cleanliness in your environment. You might have a special way of washing dishes where you cultivate your acrobatic skills while playing with the plates or where you meditate while doing it. In those cases, you also cultivate acrobatic and meditative skills.
Some actions are such that when we answer these two questions we realize their effect on the world to such an extent that we don’t want to do them any longer.
Alternatively, some other actions are such that when those questions are asked, we can continue performing these actions with much more focus and awareness than before.
Cover image from the Erosion Series by Tamsin van Essen
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
coincidences may be experienced.
“I was just thinking of you when you sent me the text.” [1]
“I was Googling my name and then this crazy picture of my favorite X comes up…” [2]
“I literally just checked her profile and then she wrote…” [3]
Modeling this world as a network. The number of connections is constantly growing. The speed is increasing. There are more interactions happening now than the moment before and they are also faster.
But it’s not only the number of connections and speed that are increasing. The agents within the network are unified into tightly-knit communities. The online recommendation algorithms ensure that we only see things that belong to our close circle, so the “filter bubbles” are formed. We see only things that those we interact with more often see. And we interact more often with those who see the same things as we see.
What happens in this new world is that the number of coincidences increases.
This happens because the density is higher. So the proportion of things happening at the same time for no particular reason also increases. The bubble is working day and night to ensure that magic exists because this is the way it grows and becomes stronger.
Some samples taken from reality:
1) I was just feeling the spike in the Ghz waves of my phone and thought it must be you because I think about you a lot and then the text message from you arrived.
2) I was Googling my name and as I was logged in, Google has all my search history and all my browsing history (through Google+ and analytics modules installed on almost every website). In order to increase the probability that I like its search results, Google’s recommendation algorithm showed me the picture of X, which is very much related to what I’ve searched for / looked at before.
3) When I checked her profile on Facebook, it detected the visit and popped up an instant chat window for her even though I didn’t write anything. The recommendation algorithm figured that it was a good moment for us to talk, so it popped up an Instant Chat window for both of us. She saw it appear and said “Hi”.
Getting used to this.
Starting to look for it in the real.
Getting used that it’s out there, tangible, within a reach.
Demanding it even when it’s not there anymore.
Superstition is to observe from above. When you look long enough, something is bound to happen. Coincidences or not, digital superstition is transforming the world from something defined by time and space to something defined by time only. And if time is what prevents history from happening at once, then the more parallel timelines exist, the more magical accidents there will be.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
I had a dream about you.
Or maybe it was a dream about myself.
It was in some kind of a beautiful forest, but there were not too many trees. Almost none. Maybe it was a Siberian steppe. Some hills around, far way.
There was a man, a very strong man, and he was showing me his bow. He put an arrow, tightened the bow string, and then, suddenly, I could see where he was aiming… as if I was aiming myself through a telescopic lens.
It was very far away. Maybe ten kilometers, maybe a hundred. I could only see a few people. Like a family. All huddled together, a mother and a child between them. They were dressed somewhat traditional, but also quite casual. Kind of happy, smiling.
The next thing I knew was the bowstring was about to be released and the arrow would shoot right into that family.
The aim lowered down from the mother onto the child, where the arrow would hit.
But it didn’t seem to matter or to be something bad. Neither did it seem like somebody would die from it, really, or maybe they would. Regardless, it would have a very strong effect. It was as if something like this had to happen, and the man who was shooting the arrows was just doing what needed to be done. An outside force was in play there.
Then there was this bag of things that the man had. It seemed like he received something and put it into that bag after each shot was made. Like a reward of some kind, or maybe just an acknowledgement. Inside there were candles. Many different candles of different shapes and sizes, but very simple white ones.
Suddenly it was you who was showing me the bag with the candles and it was a bit different than the man’s. I told you the story of what I’ve seen. How the man and his bow have left a strong impression on me. You said that you also had a bow, that you have been practicing for a long time. You showed it to me and it was smaller than the man’s bow, a very cute little bow, but a powerful one. Perhaps as powerful as the man’s.
You said that if you aim right, it could shoot very far and very precise. And that you’ve been practicing for a long time. You also mentioned that you’ve stopped practicing for a while, but that you were going to start again, very soon, maybe even now.
It seemed like it was a dangerous path, because, as I’ve seen before, the bow could be like a lethal weapon. Yet, it didn’t seem to be a problem or that it would be bad even if it was to hurt somebody. There was this feeling that with power comes responsibility. And we both knew it. We said that as long as you aim right and shoot far, it would all make sense and even beyond that, accomplishing some higher mission. The bow would grow too, with practice.
So it seemed like a matter a choice. Having that small bow as a souvenir or a toy of some sorts (still a powerful one), or to allow it to grow, honing the art of shooting the arrows, aiming precise and far, towards the unknown or maybe even precise targets. It seemed exciting.
You were sitting in front of me. It was some time after that previous encounter. Maybe only a few minutes. Then you moved closer to me, so I was right next to you.
I put my nose close to your left cheek, you smelled nice.
I started biting your neck, just a little bit, in a playful way, almost not sexual. You said it felt nice and that when you asked your mother who you should take with you, she said it would have to be me, which seemed very right to both of us somehow. Then you mentioned something about the biting, like it was tickling and it felt good, and then we giggled, and I stopped and woke up.
A lonely bird was singing beautifully outside in the middle of the night.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
image by Justin Palermo
when pouring water onto the earth
one can easily see how it penetrates
(just like on this picture)
So there seems to be no end
that has been done
even if it was just once.
Diffusion as a trace of propagation through medium.
to track its propagation
The experiment took place
Five bloggers were given a Flash widget
to publish on their blogs.
The widget was a visual representation
Information also moves in concentric semi-circles.
for many other things
including, but not limited to,
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The most plausible mechanism
over multiple frequency bands.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Mass games in the North Korea are held for foreigners. The participating children
are treated as slaves during the preparation process and the show.
Photo: Kin Cheung/AP (Source: Guardian )
To say that everything is connected is a banality.
However, just like every banality, this phrase covers up a superficial perspective on the problem that it attempts to express.
// banality as a protective reaction against the meaning
Total interdependence implies that not a single action occurs in isolation from everything else.
An interesting question to ask is then: “What do we legitimize with what we are doing?”
Every action happens in certain circumstances. Whatever it is that led to the conditions where the action emerges, as well as a chain of events that will follow after.
Therefore, when we perform a certain action, we reaffirm a whole web of relations that made this action possible in the first place. In other words, we legitimize the actor-network relations that make that action possible.
I buy cheap meat at a store on a regular basis =
I support a production process that treats animals as a resource and pumps them with hormones and antibiotics to ensure the highest yield possible at the lowest price.
I’m writing / reading this text on an iPhone or Macbook Pro =
I support Apple and its high profit margin, a company that buys out patents to prevent its competitors from releasing new technology on the market. I also support its price policy where it gets 30% of all transactions in the Apps store.
I’m working on my CV =
I legitimize the idea of a “career” — an idea that human life is more valuable when we can trace a specific professional path in it, which has a clear chronological pathway.
The fact that we are supporting and legitimizing something is not a negative or a positive fact per se.
The proposition here is to, rather, realize — consciously or unconsciously — this fact. And to put it into relation with our beliefs, ethics, morals, and other operational matrices in order to understand whether we want to continue doing what we are doing or not.
If there is a certain disagreement with a part of this dynamic process (maybe even intuitively), then, perhaps, it is a sign to reconsider this action and either refuse or change the way it is done and performed.
A similar approach can be taken when we design and audit any system. What does this system legitimize with what it is doing? What kind of qualities does it promote? What does it ask attention for? What kind of relationships does it encourage?
Mass games in North Korea are held for foreigners. The participating children
are treated as slaves during the preparation process and the show. Photo by Andreas Gursky.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Some unities are more remarkable than others.
Because they stand out from the rest.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
coincidences may be experienced.
“I was just thinking of you when you sent me the text.” [1]
“I was Googling my name and then this crazy picture of my favorite X comes up…” [2]
“I literally just checked her profile and then she wrote…” [3]
Modeling this world as a network. The number of connections is constantly growing. The speed is increasing. There are more interactions happening now than the moment before and they are also faster.
But it’s not only the number of connections and speed that are increasing. The agents within the network are unified into tightly-knit communities. The online recommendation algorithms ensure that we only see things that belong to our close circle, so the “filter bubbles” are formed. We see only things that those we interact with more often see. And we interact more often with those who see the same things as we see.
What happens in this new world is that the number of coincidences increases.
This happens because the density is higher. So the proportion of things happening at the same time for no particular reason also increases. The bubble is working day and night to ensure that magic exists because this is the way it grows and becomes stronger.
Some samples taken from reality:
1) I was just feeling the spike in the Ghz waves of my phone and thought it must be you because I think about you a lot and then the text message from you arrived.
2) I was Googling my name and as I was logged in, Google has all my search history and all my browsing history (through Google+ and analytics modules installed on almost every website). In order to increase the probability that I like its search results, Google’s recommendation algorithm showed me the picture of X, which is very much related to what I’ve searched for / looked at before.
3) When I checked her profile on Facebook, it detected the visit and popped up an instant chat window for her even though I didn’t write anything. The recommendation algorithm figured that it was a good moment for us to talk, so it popped up an Instant Chat window for both of us. She saw it appear and said “Hi”.
Getting used to this.
Starting to look for it in the real.
Getting used that it’s out there, tangible, within a reach.
Demanding it even when it’s not there anymore.
Superstition is to observe from above. When you look long enough, something is bound to happen. Coincidences or not, digital superstition is transforming the world from something defined by time and space to something defined by time only. And if time is what prevents history from happening at once, then the more parallel timelines exist, the more magical accidents there will be.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
In this world, there are many different kinds of dreams, including lucid ones. But one particular type of dream of interest is the Dream that is Incorporated.
Those dreams usually originate from marketing departments, boutique agencies, creative consultancies, and other kinds of parasitic structures created by subjects in order to survive.
They are manufactured from the aggregate data of the obvious and repressed needs of the majority diminished to the lowest common denominator, brought to an easily-digestible tasteless mass, sold as a form of Prozac to address insecurities and perceived ineptitude [ … ] of that very majority.
/often made by the [rich/white/hetero/coked-up] male subjects fresh out of business schools/
If a subject ever finds themselves in a dream,
it is easy to tell when it was incorporated (and, thus, compromised).
It will claim to be “legendary”, “innovative”, “extraordinary”, “unforgettable”, “immersive”, “collaborative” and “fun” before it even begins.
It will also have some of the common pathologies often found in Dreams that are Incorporated:
a) exaggerated presence of sterile white and Apple devices indicating propensity towards control
b) a nostalgic drive towards authenticity – unattainable due to the manufactured nature of the dream
a digitally scanned hand-written note explaining the rationale behind a ridiculous act
a new table that’s made to look old
c) conformism and uniformity wrapped in a playful infantile kindergarten aesthetics
welcome to the ikea children’s room – feel free to play while your parents (larry and sergey) go shopping!
each chair is a bit different, but in the end, they are all the same
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
still from David LaChapelle's film "Rize"
Too often we’re driven by the notion of value that has nothing to do with us.
In the most basic case we might think that something is valuable just because it can be measured in something else: the money or the amount of attention that it can be exchanged for.
// “How many likes did this post get?”
Money and popularity. These are valid criteria, but they should not be the only ones. There are many more dimensions that make something valuable and they have nothing to do with quantification.
What if something can be valuable just because it makes you feel good, here and now? How do we measure that? What if it’s something that cannot and should not be stored for further exchange? What if we think that it’s valuable only because the platform makes us think it is valuable, but, in reality, it is valuable to them and not to us? What if the value of that particular thing is not something that can be agreed upon by more than one person? And even if they did agree — people agree on many things that do not make any sense…
// Quantified value versus qualitative value
“This is not valuable because nobody cares about it.”
“To fight for one’s values.”
To add another perspective: the origin of the term “value” comes from the Proto-Indo-European hwl̥héhyeti, from hwelh — to rule, be strong”.
The connection of value to power is evident. Those who control the notion of value also control the world: people tend to choose to put their energy into things that are deemed valuable, otherwise you are a procrastinator, a loser, an outcast. Someone might say that owning a house is valuable and then somebody else will work all their life to achieve this goal and pay off a mortgage. Somebody else might buy into the idea of nomadic mobility and never own their own house, living a precarious life where they constantly have to pay rent.
People say “knowledge is power”, which may be true, but only when this knowledge is of any value.
How to determine this value for ourselves, so that it’s not somebody else’s?
The value of information is measured in the decrease of uncertainty that a message provides as well as in the amount of entropy, or disorder, that it removes.
Knowledge has value when it removes uncertainty, then.
My values. Their values. Our Beliefs.
The most extreme case: people who are ready to kill for their beliefs. Or to die for them. The ultimate way to get rid of uncertainty.
This notion of certainty is very closely related to money. Money makes people feel safe. “I want to be certain in tomorrow”.
However, can something be valuable when it’s uncertain? Can uncertainty have value?
Perhaps the main question is: how to decouple the notion of value from the notion of certainty? The more uncertain, the more valuable. As one of the possible options.
What kind of ethics emerges? If we are to value things that cannot be exchanged, cannot be measured, and do not provide any certainty — what kind of world do we build with this kind of attention? And how does it affect our environment?
Let’s take an economical perspective. It may seem that everyone can give whatever value they want to things and the market will then adjust that value based on the law of demand and supply. In theory, this might be true. In practice, we are already engaged into a complex web of relations and legitimizations, so it is not only the law of supply and demand but also the context that determines the value. And the context may have to do less with the value of exchange and more with power. That’s why, for instance, some people are underpaid for their labor. It’s not about being fair or the value added. It’s about control. Beliefs. Ethics. Religion. Playing by the rules. Making your own rules.
Example: Tom McCarthy wrote “Remainder” in 2001 — a novel that won several prizes and became very popular around the end of the 2000s. For 4 years he’d been trying to get it published, but nobody wanted it. Then, in 2005, a small French publisher Metronome Press ran a 750-copy print of the book. After a few years, it became a success. Why? Because it touched upon something that was important at the time. Truly contemporary, Agamben would say, so contemporary that it is not possible to see it contemporaneity from the present time. The big publishing houses could not see it because they rely on statistic, rarely on vision. When they approached McCarthy a few years after the success to make a re-print of “Remainder”, he refused saying that it was still the same book as the one he submitted to them 10 years ago, which they ignored.
Image credit: still from David LaChapelle’s film “Rize”
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
We now proceed to the discussion of es~sence.
What is the essence of things?
What is the essence of this question?
This is absolutely essential.
“The very essence of this idea…”
The essential weakness of this,
the essential weakness of that.
It is essential to realize that whatever it is that is realized is essential to the process of realization.
It is essential to keep up-to-date records.
To keep the essence.
It is the essential part of the process.
The essence is the essential part of the process.
There is no essence.
S/he has no essence.
It has no essence.
(How many times did I ask you not to use that word?)
The essence of this question is to understand what is of real essence to us.
The essence is still there.
Essentially, what they are trying to do is _________.
The essential parts of this device are protected against any electrical or otherwise surge and will complete their program automatically without any intervention from therein.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The magic unfolds and reveals itself.
The movement starts somewhere deep.
It travels throughout the body
or any other substance.
Creating the space and time
Each iteration is slightly reminiscent of the other,
But is, in fact, different.
The traces of magic are sometimes plotted as phase spaces and you can be sure you’re looking at magic if you see strange attractors, which normally represent some sort of chaotic behavior.
The magic continues its slightly chaotic, but highly organized movement through matter that it itself creates.
Then it encounters something else and comes into relation with it.
Is some kind of entity
That we separate from the rest
For the sake of simplicity,
It’s still part of the same thing.
Experiences friction along the way,
And that’s when it knows
It’s touching the life itself.
Magic is a beautiful thing
Especially when in relation to life.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A book of meditative drawings and scientific poetry on the practice of polysingularity of perception and the art of creation with somebody you love.
By Anastasia Pilepchuk (drawings) and Dmitry Paranyushkin (texts)
This is a book on giving a voice to the streams, letting the streams take you with them, taking the streams with you, sharing discoveries along the way, filling in the blanks, creating the new empty spaces, and establishing a common practice with somebody you love.
It is comprised of the drawings made by Anastasia Pilepchuk and the texts written by Dmitry Paranyushkin during the last 6 years. We found that our approaches were somewhat complimentary: constructing the whole from the parts, creating multiple threads of meaning, bringing them together to form the new shapes and ideas that are polysingular at their core. We put it together as this book on Circadian, adding a short manual on establishing common practice at the introduction.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
One could say that diagnosis and surveillance are friends.
They detect deviation. When it is identified, it is categorized and acted upon. The objective is to normalize and to minimize.
To minimize the risk of infection, we recommend that you wash your hands thoroughly.
We should try to minimize our carbon footprint.
To normalize one’s sleeping schedule.
It is important to normalize your behavior in order to be successful.
What if we used diagnostics and surveillance to actually encourage deviation?
To minimize deviation is to reduce the risks, but it is also to reduce the possibility for something new to emerge. There would be no evolution without deviation. That is not to say that we should devolve. It’s nice to keep some deviation here and there for things to move on in an interesting way on some weird tangents.
Some viruses can evolve and replicate so quickly that they can outpace the human immune system, making them exceptionally dangerous.
Before we get to the deviation part, it can be interesting to give surveillance and diagnosis a closer look.
For a few years now, surveillance has started to enter the human body. In the beginning, it was just a gaze (although with a promise of violence in case of defiance). Then, it advanced towards the surface of the body (stop and frisk, racial profiling). Finally, it entered the body itself through the temperature sensors, vaccine passes, and various other biometrical systems.
Something similar is happening to the diagnostic systems. They become less and less intrusive, more integrated, and sleek. The corners are getting round, the shapes are becoming more futuristic.
A smart shoe sole sends a warning to a nurse seconds before the patient is going to fall. A wearable bracelet will detect pathological variations in the heartbeat and recommend a suitable drug to reduce the symptoms.
Fitter, healthier, more productive. Less deviation, more normalization.
Deviation Control System (DCS).
DCS is a set of algorithms used to control the path of an aircraft.
DCS is a quality management system that provides for the identification, analysis, and correction of deviations from quality standards.
While there is no need to deny the advantages of something that is useful, it is also interesting to look into something that may seem less useful.
How could we use diagnostics and surveillance to actually encourage deviation?
One way could be to introduce a ‘deviation score’ for individuals. This score could be used to identify people who are likely to deviate from norms and to encourage them to do so. It was the AI who proposed it, but it actually makes sense. The neural network knows that gamification is quite an effective way to manipulate.
Another possibility is to use the existing mechanisms but change the way we approach them.
For instance, using the SPO (oxygen meter) for breathing exercises in order to see how low you could actually go in your oxygen levels.
Or using a motion tracker to create as much variability as possible (instead of following a certain routine).
CCTV cameras could be hijacked to film interventions.
Covid tests could be used to get extra vacation time.
Recommendation algorithms could be exchanged between different people so that they explore each other’s preferences.
Security personnel could be asked to patrol a busy square and not to let anyone in.
Video tracking systems could be used for purely aesthetic reasons.
Statistical tools could be used to provide strange predictions.
Monitors could be used to influence, not to reflect.
Heart rate monitors could be used to create sound.
In a way, we are still loyal to the original meanings of the words.
Diagnosis — through the knowledge.
Surveillance — to watch over.
A nervous system and an immune system are also surveillance mechanisms.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
If we attempt to illustrate the above intentionality, it would look something like that:
Therefore, for the majority of those who are interested in “Will She”, there is definitely a concern that somebody might leave beyond the vicinity of the agreed border.
For the majority of those who are interested in “Will He”, however, there is a motion of pulling back towards.
So one pushes away, but pulls back when the object is too far.
The one who is pushed away, pulls in the other object.
When the pull is too strong, the push intensifies, the object leaves gravitational field, so it’s pulled back in again.
When the pull is not strong enough, the push-away intensity is decreased, the pull intensity is increased, which only diminishes the pull even further.
She is the moon. He is the sun.
And so they move together through space and time.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
“An act is sovereign when it realizes itself by simply taking away its own potentiality not to be, letting itself be, giving itself to itself” – Giorgio Agamben
They took away my first country again. Again, because it’s happened many times before.
Sometimes I’ve taken it back. Mainly when I was somewhere at the countryside and almost always when I had my friends or relatives around. Sometimes it came back to me by itself – through the words, images, sounds, and actions committed by the people who were born there, just like me, but who found themselves somewhere else, just like myself.
I am not the only one. Many people have their countries taken away from them on a daily basis. The notorious 1% is shooting those who are not loyal with drones and runs them over with motorcycles, the 100 vampire feudal families are sucking the juices from under the ground, the holy sands are burning while IKEA is building a new shop on top of them, and in the meanwhile Snowden and Navalny are expecting their fate behind the bars.
The present reality that is one’s own becomes somebody else’s.
The question arises: do I need to have a country that’s one’s own ?
Often, especially lately, I’ve found new countries that were mine. Sometimes it happened during the evening when I was coming back home. And also when I was enjoying the silence on my own or sitting on the roof and watching the stars in the sky with my friends or with people I didn’t know.
A country is not only a territory. It’s an aggregate of the images and of the events, which are related to the territory, the language, the people, their actions, and the culture, which can be somehow detached from the rest into a single unified multiplicity.
Sovereignty is self-dependence. The sovereignty of a country is when the unified multiplicity depends on itself.
A question: What is the basis for the unification of that multiplicity? And where is the border between the unification that's one's own and the unification that's somebody else's ?
The borders of a territory define the specificity of the culture. Language affects perception and behavior. The people born and raised in Germany will behave and look differently than the people born and raised in Sudan. Often it is the territory that unifies the detached elements, events, and actions into a county. And then it becomes very easy to take that country away. Just take away the territory or territorialize it.
Some of them don’t understand that territory is only a part of a country. They cling on to it as if it were a resource. They try to protect it. Any infringement of what they consider to be theirs leads to a counterstrike. Some of them call it patriotism. They stand for the self-dependence of that territory, which is unified by their wish to use it as a resource. They act as the animals protecting their habitat. Behind them is the biomass poisoned by ideology and weapons of mass destruction.
To fight on their territory is to accept their rules. To take away their territory is to accept their basis for unification.
On the other side there is us. We came out into the world there but turned out to be here. Here is the present reality of our own. There is the present reality of somebody else. To be in the present reality of somebody else helped us realize the present reality of our own. Some of us stayed over there, but we are kindred spirits and the location is not important. Next to ourselves, we build a reality of our own even if everything that surrounds us is the reality of somebody else. Territory played an important role, but it is not the defining factor.
We have many other ways to be next to each other.
We already found each other.
We are not only the people. “We” are also the images and the shapes that surround me. The rain, the sky, the contours of buildings and trees, the smells, the occasional noises, the sunsets.
We have our own basis for unification, therefore we can have our own sovereignty.
This sovereignty does not depend on the territory. It does not depend on the history, the date and the place of birth. This sovereignty is based on the specificity of individuality. This sovereignty is the multitude of interrelated thoughts, images, and expressions that I believe in and that we believe in.
Our sovereignty is about finding our own context, producing our own self-dependent unified multiplicity.
Our sovereignty reigns over itself.
Our sovereignty is in a constant state of exception within itself and towards the outside.
Our sovereignty finds its self-dependence in a specific kind of dynamics that is polysingular.
What are the principles of that sovereignty?
Territory. The territory where I came out was full of inspiration but it did not define me. Every territory can teach something, everybody has had a different lesson. Russia was about the carnal inside, tenderness and aggression, honesty. France was about the specificity of succession and love. India was about not taking yourself too seriously. England was about living together. Germany was about discipline and order, suspense, self-searching and orgasm. They keep on inspiring despite what happens in them. It’s good that they exist and that they are all different from each other.
The principle of polysingular sovereignty is to shift between the territories and to stay at every one of them long enough and even a little longer. Polysingular sovereignty is a mix of wanderlust and tenacity.
People. We find each other neither through common grounds, nor through the territories. Love is irrational. Frienship is also. The flow is passing through all of us. Serendipity brings us together, we stay a little bit longer, look each other into the eyes, remain together.
Many of the different ones mold into the islands. They are constantly changing, shifting, exchanging, living together, separately, leaving, and coming back again. Everyone is unique, there is no single base for unification. There is only the dynamics of life that makes it possible to be together and separately at the same time. Inclusive exclusivity. Integrative segregation. Polysingularity of communication.
Actions. The way we act defines the narrative. The objective is the intention. Something happens and I react respond. Nothing happens, I make it happen. Today, when they took my country away, where the present reality is that of somebody else’s, I chose to stay in the present reality that is my own. However, it is important that the reality of somebody else made me define that of my own.
Language. Knowing a language defines a picture of the world. Knowing two languages expands it. Решать is not the same thing as to decide. The former is about weaving the narrative, the latter is about cutting off. To decide in English is to make a choice. To decide in Russian is to act accordingly.
Culture. The intricacies of behavior. We perform that what we’ve learned and unlearned during our history. The substance is morphing, the behavior changes. I thought I would never believe the impossible but now everything is different for a while.
Events. That, which makes me change the direction and transforms the context. The real event is the threat to sovereignity. I am ready to stand for the sovereignity, to defend self-sufficiency of the unification that is the present reality of my own. The events lead to actions. The actions towards the edges of one’s sovereignity make it evolve, morph, and become stronger.
The last thing. And the most important, perhaps.
We do not live in an isolated world. The practice of polysingular sovereignity implies the shifting dynamics of one’s own position, trajectory, thought-vectors, circles, communications, and behavioral strategies. In order to do all that – and also – to live and to survive – an infrastructure is needed.
To blindly use the existing ones is to accept sovereignity of somebody else. To go beyond the country borders into the virtual networks is still the same. Communication channels belong to the corporations. The corporations defend their sovereignty. They differ from the countries in that they care less about the ideology and more about the numbers. It’s also a certain kind of ideology: the binary logic subjected to rational artificial intelligence. The logic directed towards the growth and efficiency (somebody needs to pay the rent for the territory ).
To fully refuse is not the option either.
To stand for one’s own sovereignty is to create one’s own infrastructures. Using and merging the already existing ones.
To build the new bridges.
To disassemble the already existing ones.
To misuse the already existing ones.
Infusing arteries with the new substances.
Disfunctionalizing the space, matter and time.
Creating the infrastructures for life support.
Samples from nature: Seasteading (creating sea cities offshore), Vipassana meditation centers (international infrastructure for meditation, donation-based), RosPil (volunteer organization to trace the unlawful and overpriced government tenders with an embedded legal mechanism of their annulation), BitCoin (decentralized international peer-to-peer currency), Tor Network (the alternative anonymous communication network that functions on top of the already existing internet infrastructure), Cyclonopedia (theory disguising itself under layers of fiction), Dau (a film that turned the reality around itself into a film set for several years).
Facebook and Google also used to be examples of the new sovereign structures. However, their expansive totalitarian advance and subordination towards the territories have rendered them status quo.
Contemporary art could also be included if it was not subordinated.
Looking at the present reality from the Flow’s point of view, many things become apparently unimportant. Nevertheless, it’s not often that we find ourselves within the body-mind material, so why not play by its rules?
We have the whole eternity, both before and after. There will be the time and space to explore it. Right now the question is: what’s so specific about the human that separates it from eternity? Humans can fail and win. Humans can feel, enjoy and suffer. Humans can fail and win. The human repeats itself. Humans can be naive and believe. Humans can do a lot of things that eternity doesn’t know of and never will.
We will have lots of time for eternal flow and contemplation. However, we only have that much time for this temporary game on this matter’s terms.
So why not try?
Of course, we can cleanse our bodies from dead-born concepts and turn ourselves into mere vessels for infinity. But the surroundings are contagious. Therefore we have to act like a virus, go sideways, apply hypercamouflage, create our own infrastructures based on the already existing ones, integrate that which is segregated and segregate that which is integrated, practice inclusive exclusivity, deterritorialize thought, change direction, morph our strategies and more importantly in ways that we don’t yet expect.
And the most important thing. Sovereignty does not imply detachment from the present reality. Instead, sovereignty is to attach to the present reality on our own terms.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Mass games in the North Korea are held for foreigners. The participating children
are treated as slaves during the preparation process and the show.
Photo: Kin Cheung/AP (Source: Guardian )
To say that everything is connected is a banality.
However, just like every banality, this phrase covers up a superficial perspective on the problem that it attempts to express.
// banality as a protective reaction against the meaning
Total interdependence implies that not a single action occurs in isolation from everything else.
An interesting question to ask is then: “What do we legitimize with what we are doing?”
Every action happens in certain circumstances. Whatever it is that led to the conditions where the action emerges, as well as a chain of events that will follow after.
Therefore, when we perform a certain action, we reaffirm a whole web of relations that made this action possible in the first place. In other words, we legitimize the actor-network relations that make that action possible.
I buy cheap meat at a store on a regular basis =
I support a production process that treats animals as a resource and pumps them with hormones and antibiotics to ensure the highest yield possible at the lowest price.
I’m writing / reading this text on an iPhone or Macbook Pro =
I support Apple and its high profit margin, a company that buys out patents to prevent its competitors from releasing new technology on the market. I also support its price policy where it gets 30% of all transactions in the Apps store.
I’m working on my CV =
I legitimize the idea of a “career” — an idea that human life is more valuable when we can trace a specific professional path in it, which has a clear chronological pathway.
The fact that we are supporting and legitimizing something is not a negative or a positive fact per se.
The proposition here is to, rather, realize — consciously or unconsciously — this fact. And to put it into relation with our beliefs, ethics, morals, and other operational matrices in order to understand whether we want to continue doing what we are doing or not.
If there is a certain disagreement with a part of this dynamic process (maybe even intuitively), then, perhaps, it is a sign to reconsider this action and either refuse or change the way it is done and performed.
A similar approach can be taken when we design and audit any system. What does this system legitimize with what it is doing? What kind of qualities does it promote? What does it ask attention for? What kind of relationships does it encourage?
Mass games in North Korea are held for foreigners. The participating children
are treated as slaves during the preparation process and the show. Photo by Andreas Gursky.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
If one is to be a slave of something, there are many things to choose from:
Slave to one’s job.
Slave to one’s family.
Slave to the circumstances.
Slave to external demands.
Slave to the rhythm.
Slave of the fact that a washing machine is a really convenient thing to use, however, it consumes a lot of electricity and water, so it is not the most eco-friendly way to proceed out there.
Slave of a ruling system.
Slave of the cultural background and historical circumstances.
Slave of a friend of family or one’s own uncle!
Slave to one’s own idea of what is good.
Slave to somebody else’s idea of what is good.
Slave of the God.
Slave to the God.
Slave to one’s life path.
Slave to the Inner Totem.
Slave to the Inner Totem.
Slave to the Inner Totem.
Slave to the Inner Totem.
Slave to the Inner Totem.
Slave to the Inner Totem.
Slave to the Inner Totem.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
a still from The Holy Mountain film by Alejandro Jodorowski
In this world, there are stereotypes and then there are archetypes.
Accordingly, one can live a life that is partially governed by stereotypes or one can live a life that is partially governed by archetypes. Or both – to a certain extent.
It is important to make this distinction because depending on the trajectory our subject chooses, their life unfolds in a very particular way.
A life governed by stereotypes is very different from a life governed by archetypes. It is most strongly experienced at the moment of death, especially in cases when the stereotypical nature of one’s existence was obfuscated by some sort of pretense of the stereotype itself to be something more than a mere stereotype (proliferation on meta-level: e.g. a stereotypical tech CEO trying to transcend themselves on an Ayahuasca retreat).
Alternatively, an archetype can also be highly stereotypical, so the real question is not in the distinction itself, but in the origin and dynamics of this dichotomy.
We use examples from various field studies performed on location in order to confirm or disconfirm our analysis.
A first scene. There is a cafe, which has a clean, modern design that could be referred to as “hip” (in this world, such aesthetics is achieved through a combination of simple elements lacking in the everyday life of an urban person: such as raw wood and metal – bringing the ground closer to those who are missing it in front of the plastic tables and screens, glass surfaces, and various recycled materials paying homage to technology).
In that cafe, we encounter several individuals, most of them dressed in black. They emanate soft hush sounds, which we may refer to as a “discussion” (from Latin discuss – ‘dashed to pieces, or the verb discutere, from dis- ‘apart’ + quatere ‘shake.’) The content of this discussion varies, but the most common patterns consist of swapping ready-made prefabricated opinions about the current state of affairs alternated by gossip-like chatter about relationships in order to lower the degree of intensity.
Any attempt to find novelty in those intersubjective exchanges is destined to fail as it is neither a goal nor a point for those engaged. It is performed merely to confirm the status quo and to celebrate the collective spirit of dis/agreement, which strengthens the tribal ego of the participants and creates a warm comfortable feeling for everyone involved. The location, therefore, represents the mother’s womb, further fortified with the raw structures, amplified with the woolen coffee-mug holders.
The origin of opinions exchanged does not matter as much as their stated originality. They will most likely be different from the mainstream (more on that later) – which produces the most dangerous type of stereotype: that with a pretense (we refer to it as PS – Pretentious Stereotype, which is the most dangerous form of a stereotype – to be demonstrated later).
The participants, therefore, are engaged in an endless exchange of simulations. They are indwelled with the shiny facets of their dead-born reality, focusing on the constant reiteration of verges and surfaces. There is no need to look for the essence or to find an origin. Those words are long-forgotten or, alternatively, profaned through the endless procreation of their replicas.
A second scene. There is a place that is dream-like. We don’t really know where it is and we don’t really see anything clearly. The familiar shapes are engaged in the constant state of metamorphosis, so it is impossible to define their precise shapes. Shiny facets give way to infinite fractal realms. Definitions melt into chaos. The experience of the one who is present links the origins to the divine. Material shapes do exist, but only to the extent that is necessary for supporting the process of life-procreation inside the physical realm. They also serve as a reminder, that’s why the aesthetics may seem familiar (let’s say the subjects are also dressed in black – the messengers of the underworld). The participants experience all the planets moving at 10000 miles per hour in a spiral-like helix shape towards the infinite Cosmos. They are indwelled with the infinite multifractal dynamics, channeling through the cosmos and their own body vessels, as exemplified by the heartbeat, breathing, and wave-like patterns proliferating through their bodies.
In that situation, we are witnessing archetypes, where the origins (e.g. waves, repetitive life-scale rhythms, and patterns) flow through the structures in an amplified and non-obfuscated way to continue into eternity in order to come back to their origin and continue re-iteration with the renewed pathos and strength. And while in that world there is also a space for materials, objects, defilements, desires, borders, limitations, and what not – the presence of that circular flow between the origin and the divine purifies the essence and serves as a reminder of what is really important. The facets and verges are not the final destinations, they merely serve as the means to an end, which is endless in its infinite origin.
Archetypes are often hiding behind stereotypes or may become stereotypical themselves. As soon as representation comes into play there is always a danger of proliferating the form without the essence. A simple search on Google for “archetype” confirms this finding.
It is perhaps also worth noting that in itself, the very notion of “archetype” is etymologically related to the notion of “primitive”, which was profaned over years to mean something that is simple, when, in fact, it is rooted in the notion of “origin”.
This could be one of the symptoms or origins of the confusion.
One important aspect of any stereotype is that it’s inevitably connected to an archetype. It appears to be easier for stereotypes to disseminate across cultural, social, and geographical divides, therefore, they may serve as the portal into the originating archetype.
Like a system of mirrors reflecting each other into infinity, which a thorough and a truly enquiring gaze can nevertheless penetrate and – eventually – transcend. Therefore, it is sometimes advised to regard stereotypes as the messengers, as long as the agents are aware of the quest for the origin in each particular encounter.
In other words, we don’t have to disregard stereotypes fully. There are times when simulation can actually work and help us touch something real and profound.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
dmitry ((at)) noduslabs ((•)) com
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Я представляю о тебе какие-то невозможные вещи.
I imagine impossible things about you.
Например, мы сидим вместе где-то рядом. Приходит наша подруга. Мы её знаем, и ты, и я. Но по-разному. Я не буду говорить тебе, кто это, но, возможно, ты поймёшь. Это не так важно. Так вот, она приходит, садится рядом. Мы начинаем говорить. Она рассказывает нам, по-французски, про то, как она пытается. То, что она говорит – очень важно. У неё много получается, и вот она решила сделать ещё больше, но в другом месте. То, что они там ей говорят, не очень ей нравится. Ты слушаешь её, очень внимательно (что на тебя не похоже) и потом отвечаешь ей, по-французски (я не ожидал, что ты на нём говоришь так хорошо), задаёшь вопросы (это ты любишь делать), может, немного наивные, но так на тебя похожие, потому что они трогательны в своей искренности (в этом – вся ты).
After that we appear in New York.
But no, before that we’re in Berlin.
But even before that there’s a slightly romantic story. I come to this bar in Paris to see a good friend of mine. I say a good friend not because I really know him, but because I know that he is good and he can be a friend. So he is a good friend. We talk. Then his friend comes who is also a good friend. And we talk even more. We speak about the viruses and the forms of lives. You know that life is defined by NASA as something that can reproduce itself and develop? In this case even computer can be a kind of life, because it uses ourselves to reproduce and develop (we need it, so we say yes). Computers are parasites to the humans, we are the parasites to the Earth. What we do best is to produce multiplicities. We bring things together, connect them, transform our environment, create self-reinforced feedback loops, or just move gold from all the places scattered all over the earth, very hard to get, we bring gold to one place, to the bank vaults, where it will be removed by the Invaders in 2121 when our mission is fulfilled. (Your grandfather told me that and then you told me, remember?) They will probably destroy us then, because they will not need us any longer. We were like ants, fulfilling the algorithm, acting according to protocol, moving resources from many places to one, only for them to be abducted later by our creators. Anyway, we’ve had fun, we’ve loved, we’ve played, and we believed, so it’s OK.
Sorry, I got distracted. I wanted to talk about you. When I came to that bar it turned out that it was your birthday. So then I said that you have to find me (for the first time or again – as you wish) and kissed your hand. I like how you laugh, it’s happy. And you have something very special in you that we still have to discover. Together.
Back to Berlin. I’m just coming back from a party and you let me stay in your room. You have a flatmate who is a girl. I try to close her window from the outside and open mine, so I have a bit more of fresh air. Just before I enter the house, there is a “bear” standing outside, very muscular, he gestures me if he could join, but I politely refuse. When I come in I find you’re not there, but there’s your flatmate and she’s talking to her friend, who is a guy. I pass through and walk into her room (the way there is through yours), close her window (she has a balcony door, so it’s fine), come back into the kitchen for a polite exchange. It grows into a friendly conversation. They both seem to like me and it’s a weak spot of mine: I like people who like me. They ask me some questions. We proceed, the guy asks if I’m with the girl and I say, no, I’m with the guy who usually stays in this room, but right now he’s not there, so I’m going to sleep here. Maybe.
We then come out.
You finally appear. You tell me your crazy story, how you reacted to somebody on the train who was talking shit. That guy. One of those crazy people who just walk in and start doing their long tirade to justify their miserable lives. You jumped up after a while and told him to shut the fuck up. That he was a fucking misogynist and that “we don’t care” about his shitty life. (I love how in French you always say “We” even if it’s just you.) I’m so impressed with you, that you’ve done that. You said you were becoming a “fascist of tolerance”. I love that. The Fascist of Tolerance. It’s so much like you to say something like that. But so impossible also. You fear that you react too much, and yes, maybe you do, but that is you. You imagine a lot. Maybe even things that do not exist. But if they do not exist for others, you make them exist anyway, and then you refute them. Like a knight with the wind-mills. I love you for that. Because in your fight there is passion. And I love passion. I think we’re both a bit drunk (strange, because I don’t drink) and I go in one direction and you run in another. We’re both shouting. Fascists of Tolerance. Tolerance needs that. Otherwise some assholes like this guy will take all the space, you said that, and that’s why you refused to hear his bullshit and shouted back at him. We both want to make an impact and we both find strange ways to do that, but always with the real passion. And that is important. I send you my love now and move on to the next one.
The next one is, finally, in New York.
You are already there. But our friend from the first story (which you probably did not really understand, because it was in Russian) – so, our friend from the first story – I really care about her. I hope that she finds a way to deal through the difficulty, because I have a lot of love for her inside. She is very special and as long as she takes it easy, she will go through and become someone else and she loves to transform. That’s why I love her. It’s a talent.
So, finally, New York. Usually it would be impossible, because they will never give me a visa, but today it is possible for a few days only. (You see I also imagine impossible things about myself). We end up at some place. It’s neither yours, nor mine. We need to go to Mexico quickly to get something and then I come back alone. I’m flying. No, first I’m driving a Segway. You know, that stupid machine on two wheels that you have to stand on. I think they are so ridiculous. You know that the guy who invented them died on one of them? People fall so funnily from them. Like you give a bit too much speed at the beginning and the whole fucking thing just turns over and you fall on your face. Ridiculous. But then because there’s always something to learn (we love to learn, me and you, all of us!) I think that it’s OK to drive this stupid thing, at least I can learn not to accelerate too fast and it’s important to learn that, for me, at least. So I go through New York by myself standing on that Segway. I’ve learned enough, now I’m flying. For real. Usually every time I try to fly I focus on the moment of leaving the ground and starting to fly, but this time I fly and feel very confident with it. I’m not flying, I’m fucking gliding. It’s so good. I’m gliding and it’s sunny and I go through that monstrous city and I think, fuck, it is beautiful in its sprawling desire to grow from the inside out. A lot of places I pass seem to have been under construction forever, but they are finished like that. Finished Under Construction. There is nothing more beautiful in architecture than that. I understand you or maybe I understand myself.
Somehow you’re always with me. We arrive, the three of us, to some room. You start touching me, your hands gliding all over my body, very fast, very precise, following different routes across the body in sort of angular directions, which makes it into something even more. As if you’re doing a massage and also as if you’re heating my body up. Thoroughly. Beautifully choreographed. It’s so unlike you. Impossible and I am impressed. Literally. With your hands. It feels good and amazing. Then you ask me to try to do the same to you and I do that. You seem to like it, but when I touch you, maybe I think about something else, so you tell me it’s almost too close, but that is not to say I should not do that, it’s just different. (Thank you, or maybe it was me.) Anyway, I continue doing what I’ve learned from you and then we stop. We’re hot. Our cheeks are red. I don’t know what we’ve just done and somebody’s been watching us. Maybe it was you.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
To act accordingly is to act consequently.
To act accordingly is to act correspondingly.
To act accordingly to the environment.
To act accordingly to the situation.
To act accordingly is to follow the heart.
From Latin ad- ‘to’ + cor, cord- ‘heart’.
What does the situation demand?
What is the situation?
To act accordingly to the situation is to respond to the relation between the one who is to act and the situation itself.
The one who is to act has a mission.
The situation itself has a potentiality.
The two merge into unity,
Some of the consequences
respond to the mission
and to the potentialities.
Sometimes we know what to do but the circumstances are not right.
Sometimes the circumstances are right but we don’t know what to do.
Both cases mean that we do not act accordingly.
For to act accordingly is to do what’s right for the circumstances.
A train is coming and you are on the tracks. The circumstances are right to die. You want to live. You need to act accordingly.
A train is coming and you are on the train. The circumstances are right. You want to travel. You act accordingly.
A train is coming and you are on the tracks. The circumstances are right to die. You want to die. You act accordingly.
A train is coming and you are on the train. The circumstances are right. You want to stop. You act accordingly.
Polysingularity of acting accordingly is to find the path.
Polysingularity of acting accordingly is to respond with a single answer to many different questions.
To do what the situation demands, being loyal and dedicated within one’s effort.
To act accordingly is to respond to the bigger picture and to the momentum at the same time.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Gregory Bateson proposes a very interesting example in his description of the double-bind phenomena as a cause for schizophrenic reaction.
A plane passenger faces the situation where she has a neighbor who really wants to talk to her. She cannot escape before the flight ends, she doesn’t want to engage into a conversation, but she also does not want to appear rude and break social codes of behavior.
So the only possible response, if she still wants it her way, is to go crazy.
To do something outside of the expected context in order to disrupt the double bind she finds herself in.
As much as such behavior may serve as an explanation to schizophrenia, it also may be a recipe for dealing with situations like this in everyday life.
Aleksei Taruts’ work “Outside of Ritual” is a similar kind of response to the situation of violence.
Anyone who has access to the internet will also have to face a flow of extremities: the automatic algorithms make sure that the kind of content that has the ability to touch will get the most attention (and likes).
In her book “Carnal Resonance” Susanna Paasonen argues that the internet these days is a tool to reach the collective affective experience. The web is becoming an easily accessible way to feel something in the world where people get more and more disconnected physically (thanks to the web itself). This “carnal resonance” is often reached through the shocking, even somewhat surreal content: aberrant porn, violence, and various other extremities – the further away from the norm, the better. One chooses not to escape fully (it’s hard to live in the forest). One cannot fight back. One doesn’t want to accept.
What’s left is to hold those grenade fragments together, mould a cobblestone out of them, throw it back at the violence. A craziness of sorts. An escape to avoid dominance and submission.
“Outside of Ritual” shows fragments of an incident filmed with CCTV cameras outside of a Moscow nightclub. Each of the four fragments is projected onto a side of a cross. Violence spreads through the pixelated time-coded image in a chaotic way. Somebody is punching somebody else. Someone else is lying on the floor. Gunshots. Running. Each projection rotates in a 3-dimensional plane projected on a flat screen surface. Each rotating image is penetrated with a 3D Tellurium marble-like cobblestone, which breaks the image with algorithmical methodology while touching onto its surface in an almost sexually stimulating way.
It is a cobblestone flying back into the violence. It is also a magical and enchanting object, which renegates the moral and ethical view of the subject instead elevating it into an almost spiritual search for the meaning, which is not there. However, it’s the intention that matters in this case and in the end this action is neither escape, nor acceptance, neither a fight. It is wrapping and warping the tangible ends of reality which is exploding through us, and throwing it back into the black hole it’s coming from.
In this way, the whole idea of the “moving image” takes a whole new meaning. The famous train scene of Lumière brothers claimed the power that cinema has on perception. To move the already moving image is an attempt to claim the power back from the cinema, to take some degree of control from the media, to work with the flow of violence in an intelligently crazy way.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
InfraNodus is a tool for connecting disjointed bits and pieces of information into constellations, which can be used to retain, analyze and share knowledge.
It can be used to improve memory, enhance awareness, keep track of data, sentiment monitoring, interviews, and psychotherapy.
InfraNodus was developed in collaboration with Nodus Labs using polysingularity approach and is based on our algorithm for text network analysis, which is now used by hundreds researchers worldwide to get better insights and different perspectives on textual data.
InfraNodus has several implementations:
dreams.network – lucid dream~weaving tool
un1v3r53.org – making sense of conversational data
In order to create an account an invitation is needed, which is available from Nodus Labs.
Some examples of the graphs and research created with InfraNodus can be seen on Nodus Labs’ website.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
In his handling of the crisis,
to the future wellbeing.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
You know how it usually happens, right? He’s standing in the middle of the room. Then he starts walking, coming a little bit closer… standing… waiting… walking off a little bit… looking… thinking… thinking… thinking… walking towards you again… a little bit hesitant maybe… Then he walks back into the opposite corner again… Fixes his hair, looks away. He’s looking away from you. Then he looks at you again. Makes a step forward, but then comes back. Waiting. Turning his head, looking. Tilting it a little bit, trying to see better. Nodding. Nodding. Shrugging. Walking towards you again. Standing. Standing. Standing. Silence. Just a half-smile, squinted eyes. Approaching even closer, walking away. Turning his back on you, walking off. Stopping, turning around. Coming back again. Looking you in the eyes. Smiling. Half-smiling. Walking off again. Polysingularity of being all the things that make you feel like there’s a slight friction to everything, but then this is what makes everything possible also. Right?
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A table surface is still only if one is not looking and even in this case it’s moving but at the time scale that’s beyond our immediate concern. However, when we look at the surface of the table, we realize its polysingularity through the continuous reactivation of visual neurons, which, in turn, synchronize with the neurons triggering sensorimotor activity that makes us continue looking. Therefore the stillness of the table’s surface is a result of ongoing interactions between various small parts, which fall in and out of sync to produce polysingularity of our watching the table’s surface. The intention is pure and it’s there through its insistence to maintain the point of view that it took from the very beginning.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Interfaces for Cognitive Reconfiguration.
That is, language, software, music, clothes, situations, images and everything else that has the capacity.
In other words, if there is a relation and then there is an interface that mediates this relation, then the interface affects the appearances. It is a question then whether the interface is merely translating or whether it’s functioning simply as a positioning device (or a multiple-layer map), opening up the real territory to.
The fact that seamless is crying out loud is incomprehensible, yet this is the attraction. It is now wet and so it is also excited. Excitement is indeed a highly watery substance. And water can get easily excited too, especially if there is movement inside or if a new object enters its delineation.
Whatever the reason can be for not letting somebody in, it is indeed the commitment that keeps people together. The organization of principle is in itself responsible to the higher order. In case of emergency unplug the device and make sure that the power LED is still blinking. The pulsating notion of life is what makes it more interesting to subsume the infinity and dislocate it into various frequencies, following Fourier analysis.
You will never know if the power of deduction works, but what those pictures are telling us is a mystery.
It’s been a long time since I heard from you last time.
The boy is going to catch the ball.
The girl caught the ball.
The ball is round.
The ball is round.
There is no reason to be worried. Instead, try anticipation. Acting in advance is the surest way to create a reality of one’s own. Indian curry tastes good, although it’s a little bit fat at times.
She’s too far out and yet I’m going to reach her.
Let’s think of the search results that provide the least relevant pages.
Let’s think of the music that makes things happen: car accidents, love stories, 14-hour long dancing marathons.
Let’s think of a book that transforms a reader into the character.
Let’s think of the bubbly interfaces and cold steel handles, frames, and cages.
Let’s think of the forks, knives and chopsticks. Let’s think of different kinds of clothes, like the crazy outfits and the totally normal stuff.
It is now possible to stop for a while as the meter is running low.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Polysingularity is an intention realized through repetitive iteration where each consecutive turn carries a difference within itself. The intention is then the amalgamation of these differences accumulated over time. It’s the solidification of some occurrences from the many possible ones. A defined trajectory of differences in the state space of all the possible changes. A strange attractor in the midst of chaos.
Image: Clifford Attractor by sneeu@FlickR
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Everybody is special and everyone is an agent.
Every human being is special
even if just because they are unlike anyone else –
Every human being acts in the world –
So even if you don’t yet know it,
you are a Special Agent
you are a part of a Special Agency.
There are at least as many Special Agencies around the world as there are people,
but there can be even more.
Special Agency is an open source way of thinking,
a certain methodology of proceeding
beyond the limits imposed by
It is a way of finding oneself
to fully express itself
acts within the frame,
which gain their own frequency, rhythmicality, physicality, emotional hues, and variable dynamics.
In that Special Agent channels
the very unique thing
that is only him/her/its and nobody else’s –
the natural lifeflow that was mysteriously obfuscated by one’s personality.
It’s the remainings and artefacts of those obfuscations
which are of interest to a Special Agent,
as they are forming the building blocks
within the physical matter –
the retina of the one who’s reading,
the neuronal signal of the one who’s writing,
the tremble within the air produced
by somebody who speaks,
sensations of somebody who touches.
This description in itself
transformed into something else
The link above is a version tracking system normally used in programming. It keeps track of the changes submitted during the collaborative process of writing software. One can “fork” (create a copy branch) of this text and make their own “special” version of it (this case). One can submit a “push” request, which means they’re proposing their changes to the first branch and it may or may not incorporate them.
Whatever the outcome, those branches can develop in parallel, maintaining their specificity and yet able to interact and inspire each other.
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
∞OS /`eightos/ — 8os.io — is an operating system for the body~mind. It functions as software for the hardware of a human being. Its objective is to augment our interaction with ourselves, each other, and with our environment; to increase adaptivity, resilience and promote evolutionary development.
∞OS contains a set of tools that helps modulate and control energy flow dynamics. There are many different use cases for this approach: it is possible to control the flows in many different ways and for different purposes. The current iteration of ∞OS is best suited for redirecting and dissipating tensions (a skill that could be used to maintain the universal non~equilibrium stability); it also works as a tool for recontextualization (______________), for augmenting diversity, as well as for generating disturbances and impulses within the environment to activate the creative flow.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Image by Nobel Truong
A post on Facebook says “there was 9/11, now there is 11/9”. The scale of disaster is almost comparable: who could have predicted that Donald Trump would become the next president of the US?
A recent piece from NiemanLab (a leading think tank on journalism) asks if this election is the turning point for media’s influence. Despite the fact that Trump was supported by only 3% of all media in the US, it did not seem to affect voters’ preferences. No one listens to mainstream media anymore, at least not when it comes to forming an opinion. In fact, the article claims, Trump’s social networks campaign has been much more efficient than most negative coverage he’s received (which was a lot – 27 to 1 to be precise)…
The irony of the situation is that the same social networks that helped Trump win are run by the people who are vehemently opposing Trump and his policies. In the recent open letter Silicon Valley technology leaders expressed how Trump was bad for their businesses and innovation in general. And yet, the very algorithms that they helped create have been consistently increasing his ratings… Which is not surprising at all, considering that those algorithms promote whatever it is that attracts the most clicks and shares – easily digestable, superficial, and often defamatory content (just like Trump himself).
The surprising thing here is that while Google’s CEO is conducting secretive meetings to stop Trump he does not do anything to affect search algorithms’ ranking of Trump-related results. Neither does Mark Zuckerberg who claims Facebook is not a news organisation. Therefore Trump as a president is simply the notions of “freedom” and “democracy” implemented by over-enthusiastic college dropouts with totalitarian ambitions. Willingly or unwillingly they implement algorithms that promote whatever it is that can catch attention because that’s where advertising dollars go. Any claims of ideological nature are refuted, because both are simply creating a “ platform “. They seem to be adamant or maybe simply oblivious to the fact that even a platform can promote a certain ideology. And while they have the capacity to steer their platform to promote the values they themselves claim to share, it is in fact the algorithm that decides.
In 2016 the algorithms decided to promote hate content from Trump and make him even more popular. Proponents of Singularity promise the emergence of artificial intelligence in about two decades. What’s going to happen in 2036 then? Especially when that artificial intelligence is being created by ignorant, blind people who prefer not to ask themselves inconvenient questions?
However, perhaps, not everything is so bad. Maybe the good guys in Facebook, Google and Twitter did not do anything on purpose. Maybe they share Zizek’s point of view… Maybe they are even proponents of accelerationism, waiting for the existing world order to drive itself to extinction through its own self-destructive drives. Then we will enter the bright new future with no countries and no presidents. Where Apple will be responsible for running gated communities, Google will take care of the infrastructure, and Facebook will take on the functions of the police… If Zizek is right, the fact that Trump won may actually be a good thing in the long term. However, there are other, much more significant dangers that will inevitably emerge during the transformation. And if we are to allow the software to take command, we should also clearly understand how it functions, what it promotes, and which ideology it serves.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A still from the Annihilation film
In this world, annihilation is known as the movie, Annihilation.
In this movie we encounter the new form of alien life, which does not use flying saucers or other means of aerial transportation (nor any sort of conventional transportation) to reach the humanity and invade.
Instead, they choose to invade through the DNA. Attracting a human being with a mystery first, a very visually appealing and, at the same time, a frightening mystery, which then gets them further in, only to project the reflection of their own dreams and fears back onto them.
In this infinite loop, however, a sort of accelerated evolutionary moment takes place. It resolves itself through a mutation. The mutation occurs on the level of DNA, so that any future representatives of humanity carry this important firmware upgrade, which also happens to be the new form of life.
A bad choice of words.
Or maybe a bad interpretation.
For some reason, the only existing antonym of malware is “anti-virus”. But then, what about an~nihilation? Annihilatus. From Ad- ‘to’ + nihilism ‘nothing’. Bring into nothing. What if the virus is actually “goodware”, what if its only intention is to make things possible in a safe way?
Then there’s no need for an anti-virus, in fact, it becomes like a temporary drug and reality itself can act as an anti-virus, bringing the perception back to itself on its own terms. This is where the mutation takes place, so that it becomes biologically impossible to be the same anymore. Transformation inscribes itself into matter. A change in consciousness that is accompanied by a biological mutation is bound to persist.
In that same way Stalker by Tarkovsky talks about a similar topic, but in a different way. While the change in Annihilation occurs on the level DNA, the change in Stalker occurs on the level of perception and spirit, rewiring the neuronal links, reframing the belief system, ideological deprogramming.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
We already have operating systems for machines, but what we really need are the operating systems for humans.
Any OS links the form (hardware) and the function (software).
What links the human form to its function?
Our habits, morals, education, ethics, disjointed bits and pieces of knowledge that we received from here and there.
Several practices, such as yoga, meditation, religions and various martial arts attempt to connect those disjointed bits and pieces together and sometimes they are quite successful in that.
However, we need an upgrade.
We need a contemporary body/mind Open Source Operating System for the 21st century and beyond.
We can now accumulate, store and share knowledge that is worth thousands of years.
Recent technological advance augmented our capacities and gave us a taster of what it’s like to have extended perceptive and communicative capacities.
We now know that there is not only one truth, but we’ve also learned that it is important to believe.
We know that to follow the rules is to maintain stability, but we also know that breaking the rules leads to the new discoveries.
We have evolved and this evolution requires a new kind of practice.
The new body/mind Operating System, that would augment ethics, morals, exercise and spiritual practices from the 20th century and before.
The new body/mind OS that approaches the body/mind in a playful way, where the body becomes a lab to explore the immense capacities that are hidden within ourselves. It is based on
Building a database of bodies and minds.
To hack the existing cultural codes and learned moral values.
To discover the new unexpected behaviors.
To become more adaptable, open, and dedicated.
To propose an alternative to the digital incest of the forthcoming Singularity.
To help cope with stress and informational overload.
To become more adaptable.
To accept the world’s influences and to stay resilient at the same time.
To introduce mechanisms for self-protection, self-exploration and self-propagation.
To introduce new behaviors that helps us perform social magic.
What are the core principles?
There may be as many operating systems as there are people in the world and even more.
We can create simulations, run experiments, go into dual boot mode and switch from one operating system to another.
One of the propositions is to start from a common element. Some sort of origin that is accepted by most disciplines and epistemological systems.
Such element can be a wave, but it also doesn’t have to.
A wave is a basic unit of understanding that we have as human beings. What we see is a spectrum of waves, what we hear is a spectrum of waves, we feel in waves, our hearts send waves through our bodies, our neurons fire in waves, society develops in waves, and we can catch waves or get washed out by them. Therefore, it’s not difficult to designate the wave as the basic building block and the basic operating unit of the new body/mind operating system.
The next step is to branch out from this basic unit of understanding and see how we could construct various functions and protocols that could be applied both for intersubjective relations as well as for the relation to ourselves.
The basic feature of a wave is that it’s an oscillatory motion. It goes slower and it goes faster. There is friction and then there’s acceleration. Pure energy encounters the density of the medium and wave-like oscillatory motion is the symptom of this interaction.
This basic principle has powerful repercussions on ethics. One of the rules that it proposes is to never go straight into or against an obstacle. A wave always works through a combination of change in velocity and direction. Therefore, it does not respond to tension with tension. Rather it assimilates whatever is coming in its direction in order to then redirect it somewhere else.
Another implication is to accept irregular nature of things, cyclical nature of time, and the fact that in order to accelerate one needs to slow down at first and vice versa.
The principle of the wave can also be applied on the physical level. To move like a wave. To move with the wave. To gain the same momentum as the wave and to simply ride along or to change direction.
Synchronization through waves. Next chapter.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
photo by Bernd Kronmueller — Psychedelica City Area One
Cognitive stimulants are the things that alter perception and stimulate imagination and sensitivity. Their main importance is in bringing different points of view and expanding the phase space of possibilities available at every moment of time, acting as a deterrent against stagnation, boosting innovation and evolutionary development.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Many people are critical of capitalism and neoliberalism.
There are multiple other things they may be critical of, but for the sake of convenience, it can be interesting to stop here.
“This is pure neoliberalism”. “This is so capitalistic”. It’s like the words “neoliberalism” and “capital” became synonyms for the word “evil
There is no doubt that these two regimes can be evil. However, using them in such a broad sense in the context of criticizing their outcomes will only erode the potential of the critique itself.
Big concepts obfuscate the nuance and hide the important mechanisms that are at play behind every complex process.
For example, to say that something is “capitalistic” is not to say anything. Because what is not? Is there an area of human activity where no “capital” is involved? And if we question capitalism, what is it specifically that we question then?
A standard critique of capitalism is that it neglects the “inherent value” of human beings in favor of capital. But isn’t “inherent value” the same sort of capital? It may be expressed through a different mode of quantification, but the value judgment is still there. And the more “inherent value” somebody has, the more desired they are to society. Human capital.
Following a similar thread we can also see capital accumulation as an inherent part of any activity that wants to sustain itself, the best example of which is life itself. For example, a body of an animal accumulates fat and nutrients (its own capital) in order to be able to go through difficult times. It is a necessary part of any process that exists in an environment that is not homogeneous in time.
To critique the concept of “capitalism” in this case is to critique a very natural and ubiquitous process that is not inherently destructive in itself.
What makes it destructive and detrimental is the dynamics of unabridged and unsustainable growth that may emerge within. This dynamic, like cancer, has the potential to suck out all the nutrients from the environment and damage the surrounding to the point of total annihilation of everything else, including itself. But it has not as much to do with capitalism as with positive self-reinforcing feedback loops driven by craving and greed, reward and desire. These are all very human qualities that give rise to behaviors that, in turn, may pose problems and have detrimental effects.
Hiding these very concrete self-destructive (and re-constructive) patterns behind the notion of “capitalism” not only obfuscates the problem behind reactionary critique but also — absolves “anti-capitalists” from any responsibility because it externalizes the cause of suffering into some abstract realm that concerns everything and nothing at the same time.
A change can and should be initialized on the personal and collective levels and it involves keeping a check on those tendencies and establishing mechanisms that can modulate their spinning out of control. It is also important not to dismiss the idea that sometimes uncontrollable motion can bring us to new frontiers and versions of reality. Extreme states often give rise to change, therefore it’s not only about establishing inhibitory mechanisms but also — excitatory and stimulatory ones.
A similar logic applies to neoliberalism. It is an interesting word that is a close relative of the much-coveted “freedom”. Not a bad thing, in itself, as soon as it’s not proclaiming a very specific type of freedom at the expense of everything else. Just like any other ideology, neoliberalism becomes dangerous when it becomes totalitarian.
Therefore, the real problem of neoliberalism is neither “neo” nor “liberal”, it’s the totalitarian virus contained in any ideology that has unlimited propagation as its objective. However, this point is lost if we limit ourselves to the critique of neoliberalism and not the underlying dynamics, which is also very much present in any other ideology: from communism to fashism.
How to keep them in check? There is a tendency in capitalism to put a monetary value on things, individuals, groups, and relationships. While we cannot escape this process of (e)valuation, we can, however, encourage multiple value systems to coexist. Something may be valuable because it can be exchanged for money, but it may also be valuable because it promotes environmental sustainability or makes somebody feel good. As long as none of the value systems at play overtakes the rest, there is no danger in it running away on an exponential power-hungry drive. The same strategy can be applied to the incessant drive toward the commodification of the self. Multiplication of possible interpretations and the ability to switch between roles, behaviors, and representations can be used to avoid belonging to a certain category or getting stuck in a codependent relationship with an external gaze.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Transnomia is a state of transition between two different systems of beliefs where the old one is abandoned already but the new one is not embraced yet. A similar state emerges when something appears to have a meaning but does not yet make sense.
In the trial study presented below the audience was introduced to a closed system of 52 floating signifiers (body/language/movement gestures without particular meaning attached – can be seen as the nodes in a network), which were then bound together in random ad-hoc constellations (connections between the nodes – edges). After a certain number of iterations, the network appears to be “connected”, the patterns emergewhich produces a particular sensation that those constellations “make sense”. Those patterns were then continuously dismantled, producing “Transnomic” states (a suspended meta~stable condition between two different systems of belief or meaning), which were marked by the audience’s laughter during those transitionary moments.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Cover windows and doors
Cover vents in bathrooms
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
In this world, there are several facts that are scientifically confirmed.
The state of cognitive rest is characterized by chaotic variability.
Chaotic variability has a pattern of pink noise.
Pink noise: oscillation amplitudes negatively correlate with their frequencies. The smaller the amplitude, the higher the frequency. The higher the amplitude, the lower the frequency. Everyday things happen more often than high-impact events. Generally, this is how it happens in life and that seems more or less natural.
An example from the body: most of the time the body is making small movements and sometimes there are occasional spikes of bigger movements. The more extreme is the movement, the rarer it occurs.
Why should that be interesting at all?
A similar pattern was noticed in mood shifts among those who are considered to be
normal or mentally healthy.
Normal and healthy = chaotic variability in movements and moods
// patterns change but repeat themselves
But those are rare (as fuck).
The more intense the emotional disturbance, the rarer it occurs.
in normal, mentally healthy people.
When people are anxious,
Chaotic variability in movement is gone.
Instead, the period of white noise onsets.
White noise is when
In other words, things small and big have a similar chance to occur. This is not really natural, although it happens in life. Nobody will argue with that.
Panic attacks occur at random intervals.
Their intensity is pretty predictable.
most of the time
Even worse, they may also occur regularly.
Regularity is a key word for anxiety.
One could call it a loop.
Normal healthy people also have a connection to regularity,
but it is not as strongly expressed in them.
Depressive people, in the contrary,
have shown to be
completely immersed in chaos.
Both in their mood variations,
N – normal mentally healthy state
P – panic attack, increased anxiety, excitement
Normal mentally healthy state variability in time:
(chaotic variability with circadian regularity of pattern re-occurrence)
Predominantly anxious emotionally excited state in time:
(random shifts between the opposites with circadian regularity – bipolar as the extreme)
Predominantly depressed, inactive state:
(chaotic variability with no circadian regularity)
if we get too connected
to the 24-hour rhythm
If, however, we inject
The brain needs to be able
Its underlying near-chaotic dynamics
The brain’s near-chaotic dynamics
is determined by its
When neurons are synchronized,
all of them and for a short time,
rhythmical oscillation occurring randomly,
When they cannot synchronize altogether
However, when they can synchronize
in many different constellations,
implying a mix of chaos,
we’re dealing with a healthy behavior.
with an element of
One last thing to say.
have shown to be linked to
(In a study of 300000 Swedes).
that those, who are are
Craziness is a form of resistance.
that those creative states
in body movement patterns,
Clear sense of direction.
(It’s difficult to speak about love like this…)
Understanding the way things are.
Not getting any answers,
how is it changing
what is in there
And like this every day with small deviations along the way.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
When a subject walks over the stairs, they experience polysingularity. The intention is the same, but the appearance is different. The solutions can be reached using many possible pathways. The slight deviations in the route make each solution unique. There’s a strong proposition from the stairs, which make the differences between these unique solutions as small as possible, so as to indicate only some of the possible outcomes and thus manifesting its polysingularity.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
dmitry ((at)) noduslabs ((•)) com
This is also available in: Русский ( Russian )
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
∞OS /`eightos/ — 8os.io — is an operating system for the body~mind. It functions as software for the hardware of a human being. Its objective is to augment our interaction with ourselves, each other, and with our environment; to increase adaptivity, resilience and promote evolutionary development.
∞OS contains a set of tools that helps modulate and control energy flow dynamics. There are many different use cases for this approach: it is possible to control the flows in many different ways and for different purposes. The current iteration of ∞OS is best suited for redirecting and dissipating tensions (a skill that could be used to maintain the universal non~equilibrium stability); it also works as a tool for recontextualization (______________), for augmenting diversity, as well as for generating disturbances and impulses within the environment to activate the creative flow.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
This article was written in response to the Coronavirus pandemic in Spring 2020 and published on Hackernoon.
The world is gripped by the collective anxiety proliferated by live death-count dashboards, exponential charts, and frightening headlines that promise the imminent apocalypse.
The real extent of the problem, however, is not really known. The decisions are made based on incomplete data. Worst-case scenarios are used to implement social and economic policies without a proper discussion or long-term implications assessment.
The Singularity that we’ve been talking about all these years has finally arrived. The AI has taken over. And it did so in a form that was much less violent that we could have ever predicted. Even benevolent, in some ways.
There are no robots on the streets killing people. On the opposite: Trump is promising universal basic income to everyone, Netflix’s traffic is surging, and the internet is bustling with broadcasts from voluntary prison cells. The revolution did not come in the form of SkyNet, but, rather, of Matrix. And it was not imposed but, surprisingly, self-inflicted.
The digital totalitarian capitalism has arrived. It exploited that one vulnerability that every human being has: fear of death… and self-reinforcing feedback loops.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
As I am writing these words this beautiful artwork that has over the years become the landmark of Berlin is being painted black. All over.
Right now it looks like this:
and by tomorrow it’s going to look like this:
or finally like this:
And it is not the city of Berlin doing that, neither it is the real estate developers who want to build a new residential complex at this empty spot.
In fact, it is being done by the people related to BLU — the artist who made this painting.
Sort of a desperate statement: having learned that a new house would be built at that spot with a panning view on the paintings (that would be preserved on the wall), the artists decided to paint them all black, so that nobody can take advantage of the original work… A “fuck you” gesture towards the city, towards the real estate company, but most of all – to all the people who love this artwork and everything that it’s come to represent. And especially – the piece of the empty land next to the painting – one of the few empty spots left on the river Spree. After the painting is gone, there’s nothing left to save it from real estate developers. Only a sad “your city” pitch-black pessimistic statement that admits the loss…
The argument of the people who are doing that is that Berlin is not the same anymore, that the real estate company will just use the artwork to sell apartments more expensive, that a new statement needs to be made at this new moment of time… In a way, they are doing exactly what the artwork says: “reclaim your city”.
But their way of “reclaiming” Berlin is actually accepting their own loss. Accepting that they cannot win the fight. Losing hope. The sailors of the sinking ship decide to take the ship down that is already drowning – even faster – and with a big bang. So that at least, after they sink, they are remembered.
If that is a statement, it is a statement of total despair, pessimistic and negative at its core, devoid of any faith, belief, and hope.
A statement that is full of anguish. Attempting to gain control where it cannot exist anymore. And very symptomatic of street art and contemporary art in general: full of irrelevant ego-driven explosions within the small bubbles that nobody cares about anyway.
A statement that is also full of hypocrisy. The people who are destroying the artwork say that they act with BLU’s consent. They say that he doesn’t want to help real estate companies sell their apartments better. But he does not seem to mind that those same real estate companies inadvertently provide canvases for his own artwork to sell better…
A statement that is completely stupid and pointless, because most people will simply not care. And those few who love this painting and this place will lose the chance to enjoy it and will instead have to face a pitch-black pessimistic statement that’s supposed to be some political gesture but instead suffocates in its own hypocrisy, pointlessness, and despair.
And, most importantly, a statement that deprives Berliners of the last chance to save the beautiful empty piece of land next to the painting. The special status of this artwork and its popularity could help revert the decision to build houses there. However, it’s going to be very easy to cover up the desperate pitch-black “fuck off” gesture and no one will even complain. This work had a chance to use the fact that it has been used and, literally, reclaim the city, at least the little piece of land it was next to. However, they chose to give up on their own work, on their city, and on that little chance they had to actually make the painting do what it (now) used to say…
There has been quite a lively discussion on this page, so I think it’s necessary to express my point of view in a more concise way to avoid misinterpretation:
This action is hypocritical because the street artists who claim that the city’s surfaces are for everyone just cannot get possessive about their work – otherwise, they contradict themselves.
The action is desperate and defeatist because it simply reveals what is going to happen before it actually happens. Like spoiling the end of the movie and thus depriving us of the experience, which would generate a stronger debate with a longer timespan (i.e. the duration of construction) about the empty spaces in Berlin and the commodification of street art. It would make much more sense to lose this art piece to the real estate developers in order to win in the long term.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
This article was originally published by Dmitry Paranyushkin on the Nodus Labs website on 30 November 2020.
Human attention is attracted to change. When things get uninteresting and mundane, we tend to snooze off and get distracted ( evolution). When there’s too much change, we get disturbed or addicted ( into the jar of attention economy). The right amount of change is a crucial element of something that is engaging in a sustainable way.
This is particularly true for a text or a conversation. Nobody likes to read boring texts or to have dull conversations. A text that is mundane lacks variability and diversity. The subject, the pace, and the dynamics stay the same, it seems like repeating itself over and over again. Language is a lot like music, and music is based on variability:
A text can be represented as a dynamical system. If the system is stale, it’s dead. If it is changing too much, it will become unstable and may eventually break. Hence, the only way for the system to maintain itself and to evolve at the same time is to constantly change in a way that is ecological in its nature.
To be ecological is to be aware of the environment, to consider the whole as well as the parts. Particularly, the interactions between them. When things start to grow too fast, we need to slow down (unless we want them to break apart, which we might, in some cases). When things start to slow down, we need to accelerate the pace. If what we’re doing does not work, it may also make sense to just go with the flow and wait for a change (as “this, too, shall pass”).
How can we represent the dynamics within a text? On the basic level, it consists of the concepts. These concepts weave together to produce meaning. Gradually, the patterns emerge and if we trace the emergence of those patterns in time, we can get a sense of the dynamics within.
How should the structure of this text evolve for it to be ecological? First, it should not stay the same. We need a certain level of change, which means that we should be shifting the subject and covering a wide range of topics so that the discourse stays open and adaptable. At the same time, we also want a certain level of focus to not disperse our attention and to stay resilient. Yet, too much focus might make the text too homogenous, so there should be a certain dynamics where we alternative between all those different phases.
This approach is best illustrated in the image below and we implemented it into the InfraNodus insight recommender app. It modulates variable dynamics in any text and can be used for writing, interviewing, brainstorming, and generating new ideas. Here’s how it works.
In InfraNodus, you can start from an empty page and only a few ideas (stage 1 on the picture above — we call it “bias” ). The system is then guiding you through to add more ideas and the connections between them.
Gradually, the number of ideas increases, they become interconnected and more diverse (transition from stage 1 to stage 2). Once this stage is reached, InfraNodus encourages you to focus on a specific idea (stage 2) and to zoom into it to explore the specifics (transition from 2 to 3). In the context of an interview, you could be asking the interviewee to talk more specifically about a certain topic they’ve mentioned before.
Once we stay focused for a while, it’s time to diversify our attention, so we don’t get tired or overwhelmed. InfraNodus will point your attention to the parts of your text that are less represented and towards the periphery. Helping to diversify and to disrupt the existing connections, to focus on other, smaller things (Stage 3 to Stage 4) as well as the structural gaps. That means developing the ideas that have only been mentioned in passing, following the branches of meaning that have not yet been explored. This will often lead you to make new connections you haven’t thought of before and generate insight and interesting ideas.
Finally, it will propose you to shift your focus to singularities once again, to find a new topic and to dig into it, so that it can be developed further (Stage 4 to 1), and the new cycle begins.
To learn more about this methodology, see the detailed tutorial on the InfraNodus insight recommender system, where we also demonstrate how it is linked to the notion of panarchy.
This approach embraces variability and diversity both on the level of the structure and of the dynamics. When you are working on a text, developing a discourse, or having a conversation, you probably want it to go through all the different stages. To to be able to zoom in and to focus on a certain topic, and to also have an overview and to be able to see the big picture at once. To be able to diversify the subject field, and to explore new possibilities and connections. This way you will continue indefinitely and there’s never writer’s block as there’s always something to disrupt and something new to build upon.
In our own practice, we found that this workflow can be particularly useful for the ideation process, as shown in the video above. It can also be used to conduct the interviews as the system will always generate interesting questions to ask next:
… as well as the brainstorming sessions that you can do in a team or on your own:
You can try this approach using InfraNodus at https://infranodus.com
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
The B…. Belly With Us All In It
The belly with us all in it
Hangs above a bath of leaves
that brings us out
What is this spring
Creator of loud, lonely
and the burning world
in the minds of men
in the minds of animals
songs in the mind
patterns in the minds of
water in the minds of fish
What is the meaning of
People say that you wrote
The books full of murder
Books full of blood
Books full of vision and loss
Books full of teacher
As if they were in a taller air
And are you mine also?
Even I who has forgotten my song
Forgotten two leaves in the small wind.
Leaves are up in the setting sun
The leaves blowing up in the street.
Are you even mine?
Cannot match its beauty…
And even if you could match its beauty
You cannot make it continue
And even if you could make it continue
You cannot make it everywhere
And even if you could make it everywhere
You cannot match its infinity.
And even if you could match its infinity
You could only do that
There is no other world
There is another world
Poem by Eric Green, hosted by Mr Forget, music Kraftwerk/INOJ
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
Software development is polysingular. The various frameworks and models developed for computer programming are essentially translations of the world’s complexity into electricity and back.
Computer languages enable us to realize the same process using multiple possible ways. The basic building blocks of programming are variables (basic building blocks), classes (types of things) and objects (things themselves). Various functions define the affordances that each object can have. The variables, classes, objects, and functions come into dynamic relation to the user through executable code and affect the surrounding complexity.
One important element of computer code is its immanence. Once the machine is running, it’s ruthless in its intention to fulfil the code. This is the main difference that sets machines apart from humans: they don’t change their minds. Even if the machine has a learning process embedded, it’s still mainly driven by the algorithms of learning that were preprogrammed. There is no space for irrational. Therefore, while programming is polysingular to a certain extent, it’s not polysingular in its ability to reinvent itself. The number of options given is finite and the way they can morph one into another is limited.
Nevertheless, programming is the language we can use to create interactive paradigms that are polysingular in their essence. Conditional statements (such as “if… then… else…”) define the branches of pathways available. Loops (while… do…) and cycles (for…) ensure that there’s a rhythm and consistency to what the functions can do.
Every time we are in front of a computer or using an interface let’s remember that at the core of it we are interacting with a multitude of objects, classes, variables, and functions, most of which are loops. These loops come together and produce temporary areas of non-equilibrium stability, which enable streaming videos, transmission of texts, responsive links and buttons. The software that’s polysingular also carries within itself a certain dysfunctional pathos, it disrupts the way we normally do things. There are not so many examples of polysingularity in programming, but the websites like Coub.Com (short video loop format), ThisIsLike.Com (rhizome-like network of knowledge), Google Maps (love the possibility to create polysingular routes to the same destination), GitHub (multi-branch version control system) are at the forefront of introducing polysingularity to the software we use. However, as most of the programs are so rational we need to introduce more irrationality into them. Human is the last agency for meta-polysingularity: the process that enables polysingular entities to reinvent themselves in polysingular fashion. Therefore we absolutely need humans to behave irrationally with their own software tools and the software tools, while designed rationally, need to provoke their users for irrational behavior. It’s only through this combination of machine and human that we’ll be able to achieve a true polysingular process of constantly shifting between islands of non-equilibrium stability, while maintaining each of them for a moment of time when it’s relevant to the situation we find ourselves in.
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
I passed by the building you were working in
I wanted to step inside it
I wanted to lie in your arms again
I passed by the building that you live in
And I wanted to die
I just stood there and cried
For then the way I felt
For the way I was gonna cry
I passed by the building where you sleep
And I wanted to sigh
At the sweet smell of your loving
But I just weep at the morning
A practice of non-equilibrium stability across multiple frequency spectrums.
During my practice, between 2015 and 2018, I liked to use the term “Special Agent”. Apart from other elements, it consists of two words: “special” and “agent”. Why?
The word special relates to one’s specialty: be it a brain better suited for solving mathematical problems or the ability to cook amazing Italian food. To be special is to be different from the rest, which is already the case because nobody is the same, everyone is a little bit different. To nurture this difference is a very fulfilling way to be special, although not the only one.
Special does not equal “best” and also has little to do with individualism. The word “special” relates to the word “specie”, so to be special is to belong to species. A human being belongs to the human species, but also to mammals. To be special, therefore, is to act on behalf of the human species and on behalf of all (baby) animals with that specialty, which makes you unlike anyone else.
If we now move to the notion of an agent, we usually have associations to something like a secret agent, a travel agent, or an agent of a musician. These are only specific cases of agents, which are part of a broader definition. An agent is somebody who has the capacity to act (from Latin “agentio”). To practice one’s own agency. To be an agent is to explore the agentivity of oneself, to gain power, and to let go. To connect to others and to the environment through our agency. To have an agency.
A special agent, therefore, is somebody who acts in the world with a certain agency in a way that nurtures whatever specificity they have in relation to other species. A sort of social individualism with a touch of idealistic pragmatism.
A fork (modified) version of this text is available at http://specialagency.co
